Which NFL team represented the AFC at Super Bowl 50?
Which NFL team represented the NFC at Super Bowl 50?
Where did Super Bowl 50 take place?
Which NFL team won Super Bowl 50?
What color was used to emphasize the 50th anniversary of the Super Bowl?
What was the theme of Super Bowl 50?
What day was the game played on?
What is the AFC short for?
What was the theme of Super Bowl 50?
What does AFC stand for?
What day was the Super Bowl played on?
Who won Super Bowl 50?
What venue did Super Bowl 50 take place in?
What city did Super Bowl 50 take place in?
If Roman numerals were used, what would Super Bowl 50 have been called?
Super Bowl 50 decided the NFL champion for what season?
What year did the Denver Broncos secure a Super Bowl title for the third time?
What city did Super Bowl 50 take place in?
What stadium did Super Bowl 50 take place in?
What was the final score of Super Bowl 50?
What month, day and year did Super Bowl 50 take place?
What year was Super Bowl 50?
What team was the AFC champion?
What team was the NFC champion?
Who won Super Bowl 50?
Super Bowl 50 determined the NFL champion for what season?
Which team won Super Bowl 50.
Where was Super Bowl 50 held?
The name of the NFL championship game is?
What 2015 NFL team one the AFC playoff?
Which Carolina Panthers player was named Most Valuable Player?
How many appearances have the Denver Broncos made in the Super Bowl?
What year was the Carolina Panthers franchise founded?
What team did the Panthers defeat?
Who did the Broncos prevent from going to the Super Bowl?
Who did the Panthers beat in the NFC Championship Game?
Who lost to the Broncos in the AFC Championship?
Who were the defending Super Bowl champions?
How many teams have been in the Super Bowl eight times?
Who was this season's NFL MVP?
What was the win/loss ratio in 2015 for the Carolina Panthers during their regular season?
Which Carolina Panthers team member was picked as the team's MVP in 2015?
What were the win/loss game stats for the Denver Bronco's regular season in 2015?
How many teams have played in the Super Bowl eight times?
Which team did not get a chance to defend their Super Bowl XLIX win in Super Bowl 50?
Who is the quarterback for the Panthers?
Who did Carolina beat in the NFC championship game?
How many times have the Panthers been in the Super Bowl?
Who did Denver beat in the AFC championship?
Who was the Most Valuable Player for the 2015 NFL season?
Who did Denver beat in the 2015 AFC Championship game?
Who did the Carolina Panthers beat in the 2015 NFC Championship game?
Who was the 2015 NFL MVP?
Who did the Panthers beat to become the NFC champs?
What year did the Carolina Panthers form?
Who was the Super Bowl 50 MVP?
How many fumbles did Von Miller force in Super Bowl 50?
Which team held the scoring lead throughout the entire game?
Which Denver linebacker was named Super Bowl MVP?
How many solo tackles did Von Miller make at Super Bowl 50?
Who was limited by Denver's defense?
How many times was Cam Newton sacked?
Who won the Super Bowl MVP?
How many turnovers did Cam Newton have?
How many fumbles did Von Miller force?
Who was given the esteemed status of MVP for Super Bowl 50?
What position does Von Miller play for the Denver Broncos?
What was the number of solo tackles that Von Miller had in Super Bowl 50?
How many forced fumbles did Von Miller have during the Super Bowl 50 game?
Who won the MVP for the Super Bowl?
How many tackles did Von Miller get during the game?
How many times was Cam Newton sacked in Super Bowl 50?
How many times did the Denver defense force Newton into turnovers?
Which Newton turnover resulted in seven points for Denver?
Who was the Most Valuable Player of Super Bowl 50?
What position does Von Miller play?
How many times was the Panthers' quarterback sacked?
How many times did the Broncos cause turnovers in the game?
What Denver player caused two fumbles for the Panthers?
How many tackles did Von Miller accomlish by himself in the game?
Which network broadcasted Super Bowl 50 in the U.S.?
What was the average cost for a 30 second commercial during Super Bowl 50?
Which group headlined the Super Bowl 50 halftime show?
Which performers joined the headliner during the Super Bowl 50 halftime show?
At which Super Bowl did Beyonce headline the halftime show?
Who was the broadcaster for Super Bowl 50 in the United States?
What was the average cost of a 30-second commercial?
What halftime performer previously headlined Super Bowl XLVII?
What halftime performer previously headlined Super Bowl XLVIII?
Who was the main performer at this year's halftime show?
Which network broadcasted the 50th Super Bowl game?
What was the average cost for a TV ad lasting 30 seconds during Super Bowl 50?
Who was the male singer who performed as a special guest during Super Bowl 50?
What ranking does the Super Bowl 50 halftime show have on the list of most watched TV broadcasts?
What station aired the Super Bowl?
How much money did a 1/2 minute commercial cost?
What band headlined half-time during Super Bowl 50?
What two artists came out with Coldplay during the half-time show?
Who broadcast the Super Bowl on TV?
Who headlined the halftime show for Super Bowl 50?
Who were special guests for the Super Bowl halftime show?
Which Super Bowl halftime show did Beyoncé headline?
What was the cost for a half minute ad?
Who lead the Super Bowl 50 halftime performance?
What other two famous performers were part of the Super Bowl 50 halftime?
What performer lead the Super Bowl XLVIII halftime show?
Who was the NFL Commissioner in early 2012?
Which Super Bowl did Roger Goodell speak about?
In what year did Roger Goodell call Super Bowl 50 'an important game for us as a league'?
Who is the Commissioner of the National Football League?
When did he make the quoted remarks about Super Bowl 50?
Who was the commissioner of the NFL in 2012?
Who if the commissioner of the NFL?
Who is the commissioner of the NFL?
In early 2012, Goodell said that Super Bowl 50 would be what?
What one word did the NFL commissioner use to describe what Super Bowl 50 was intended to be?
What year did Roger Goodell announce that Super Bowl 50 would be "important"?
Which Louisiana venue was one of three considered for Super Bowl 50?
Which Florida venue was one of three considered for Super Bowl 50?
Which California venue was one of three considered for Super Bowl 50?
What venue in Miami was a candidate for the site of Super Bowl 50?
What site is located in the San Francisco Bay Area?
What is the name of San Francisco's stadium when looked at as a possibility for Super Bowl 50?
What was the name of New Orleans' superdome at the time that Super Bowl 50 took place?
What was the given name of Miami's stadium at the time of Super Bowl 50?
What three stadiums did the NFL decide between for the game?
How many sites did the NFL narrow down Super Bowl 50's location to?
One of the sites, Merceds-Benz Superdome, is located where?
What is the name of the stadium in Miami that was considered?
What was the third city that was considered?
What is the name of the stadium in San Francisco Bay Area?
What Florida stadium was considered for Super Bowl 50?
What New Orleans stadium was considered for Super Bowl 50?
What is the name of the stadium where Super Bowl 50 was played?
When were the two finalists for hosting Super Bowl 50 announced?
How many times has the South Florida/Miami area hosted the Super Bowl?
What was the most recent Super Bowl hosted in the South Florida/Miami area?
When was the most recent Super Bowl hosted in the South Florida/Miami area?
When did the San Francisco Bay area last host the Super Bowl?
What was the other finalist besides Levi's Stadium?
When were the finalists announced?
In what venue did Super Bowl XIX take place?
On what date did the Florida legislature decide against the plan to renovate the Miami stadium?
In what year was the Super Bowl last held in the Miami/South Florida area?
How many times has a Super Bowl taken place at Miami's Sun Life Stadium?
What was the last Super Bowl that took place at Sun Life Stadium in Miami?
In 2012, how many stadiums were named as finalists for hosting Super Bowl 50 before the final stadium was chosen?
What was the entity that stepped in and caused Miami's Sun Life Stadium to no longer be in the running to host Super Bowl 50?
Prior to this consideration, when did San Francisco last host a Super Bowl?
What other city has hosted the Super Bowl ten times?
What date were the top two stadium choices for Super Bowl 50 announced?
How many times prios has the Sun Life Stadium had Super Bowls?
What city is tied with Miami for hosting the Super Bowl?
When was the last time San Francisco hosted a Super Bowl?
Who decided not to approve paying for renovations at Sun Life Stadium that the league wanted for them to do to host Super Bowl 50?
When was Levi's Stadium awarded the right to host Super Bowl 50?
Who voted on the venue for Super Bowl 50?
When did Lev's Stadium open?
How much did it cost to build Levi's Stadium?
What California city last hosted the Super Bowl?
Where did the spring meetings of the NFL owners take place?
On what date was Super Bowl 50 given to Levi's Stadium?
How much did it cost to build Levi's Stadium?
Prior to Super Bowl 50, what was the last Super Bowl in California?
In what city did the last Super Bowl in California occur?
What year did Levi's Stadium become fully approved to host Super Bowl 50?
When did Levi's stadium open to the public?
How much did it cost to build the stadium where Super Bowl 50 was played?
What year did a Super Bowl play in the bay area around San Francisco, prior to Super Bowl 50?
Which Super Bowl was hosted in San Diego in 2003?
When was San Francisco voted to be the location for Super Bowl 50?
When did Levi's Stadium open?
When was the last Super Bowl in California?
Where was the meeting held when the NFL owners voted on the location for Super Bowl 50?
When was Levi's Stadium picked for Super bowl 50?
When did Levi's Stadium open?
How much did Levi's Stadium cost?
When was the last time California hosted a Super Bowl?
Who coached each Super Bowl 50 participant in their most recent Super Bowl appearance prior to Super Bowl 50?
How many NFL teams have finished the regular season with one loss?
How many NFL teams have gone 15-1 in one season?
Which team in Super Bowl 50 had a 15-1 record?
What was the last Super Bowl the Broncos participated in?
Who was the head coach of the Broncos in Super Bowl XLVIII?
What was the number of times the Denver Broncos played in a Super Bowl by the time they reached Super Bowl 50?
How many NFL teams have had only one loss by the end of a regular season?
What was the first Super Bowl that the Carolina Panthers played in?
How many teams can boast a 15–1 regular season record?
What seed was the Carolina Panthers?
What seed was the Denver Broncos?
Prior to Super Bowl 50, when were the Broncos last there?
Prior to Super Bowl 50, when were the Carolina Panthers last there?
How many teams have had a 15-1 record for the regular season?
How many games did the Panthers lose in the regular season before Super Bowl 50?
How many teams up to Super Bowl 50 have been to the championship game eight times?
Before Super Bowl 50, what was the coach's name that coached both teams for their last Super Bowl appearances?
Whic Carolina Panthers running back was waived?
Which Carolina Panthers wide receiver suffered a torn ACL before the season began?
How many teams have won 15 regular season games since the 16-game schedule was adopted?
In what year did the NFL switch to a 16-game regular season?
Who had the best record in the NFC?
How many Panthers went to the Pro Bowl?
How many Panthers were designated All-Pro?
What Panther tore his ACL in the preseason?
What year did the league begin having schedules with 16 games in them?
What year did the the Saints hit a 13-0 record?
When did the Packers arrive at a record of 13-0?
What injury did the Carolina Panthers lose Kelvin Benjamin to during their preseason?
Which player did the Panthers lose to an ACL injury in a preseason game?
Which running back did the Panthers waive?
When did the NFL start their 16 game seasons?
How many Panthers players were selected to the Pro Bowl?
Which team had the best regular season in their history?
When did the league go from 15 to 16 games in the regular season?
What team had the best start ever in the NFL?
How many Panthers players were chosen for the 2015 season's Pro Bowl?
How many Pro Bowlers were on the Panthers offense?
How many total touchdowns did Cam Newton score?
How many interceptions did Cam Newton throw?
How many punts did Ted Ginn Jr. return?
Who started at tight end for the Panthers?
What is the record number of touchdowns Cam Newton has had?
What is the best QB ranking that Cam Newton holds?
What are the most passes that Greg Olsen has had?
What position does Jerricho Cotchery play?
Which Panthers RB scored 6 TDs in the 13 games leading up to Super Bowl 50?
How many Offensive players from the Panthers were selected to play in the Pro Bowl?
Who is the quarterback for the Carolina Panthers?
How many yards did Newton throw for in 2015?
How many touchdowns did Newton have in 2015?
How many touchdowns did Jonathan Stewart have in 13 games?
How many points did Carolina lead the NFL in scoring for offensive plays?
how many yards did Newton get for passes in the 2015 season?
How many touchdowns did Newton get in the 2015 season?
What was Newton's quarterback rating for 2015?
How many receptions did Cotchery get for the 2015 season?
How many points did the Panthers defense surrender?
How many career sacks did Jared Allen have?
How many tackles did Luke Kuechly register?
How many balls did Josh Norman intercept?
Who registered the most sacks on the team this season?
How many interceptions are the Panthers defense credited with in 2015?
Who led the Panthers in sacks?
How many Panthers defense players were selected for the Pro Bowl?
How many forced fumbles did Thomas Davis have?
Which player had the most interceptions for the season?
How many 2015 season interceptions did the Panthers' defense get?
Who had five sacks in nine games as a Carolina Panthers starter?
Who was the Panthers' tackle leader for 2015?
How many interceptions did Josh Norman score touchdowns with in 2015?
Who is the head coach of the Broncos?
Who played quarterback for the Broncos after Peyton Manning was benched?
Who did Peyton Manning play for as a rookie?
Who did the Broncos play in the last week of the regular season?
Who is Denver's defensive coordinator?
How many years was John Fox the head coach of the Denver Broncos?
What is the name of the Bronco's head coach, who was hired after John Fox?
What was the first team Peyton Manning began playing for?
How old was Peyton Manning in 2015?
In the 10th week of the 2015 season, what injury was Peyton Manning dealing with?
When John Fox left as head coach for the Broncos, who replaced him?
Who was the quarterback for the Broncos 2015 season?
What injury did Manning suffer the summer before the season started?
How old was Manning at the beginning of the 2015 season?
How many games did the Broncos lose during their regular 2015 season?
What coach left the Broncos after the season prior to Super Bowl 50?
According to game stats, which Super Bowl 50 quarterback had his worst year since his first season as a player in the NFL?
Who was the Denver head coach for Super Bowl 50?
What foot was injured on Manning that sidelined him in week 10?
Who was the defensive coordinator for the Broncos in 2015?
What was Peyton Manning's passer rating for the season?
How many picks did Peyton Manning throw in the season?
Who registered the most receptions on the Broncos?
Who had the most rushing yards on the Broncos?
How many touchdowns did Brock Osweiler throw in the season?
What was the passer rating for Peyton Manning that he finished out with for the season?
How may yards did Peyton Manning throw?
What was the number of 17 interceptions that Peyton Manning had by end of the year?
Who had the most receptions out of all players for the year?
What position does Demaryius Thomas play?
What was Manning's passer rating at the end of the season?
How many times was Manning intercepted during the 2015 season?
Who led the Broncos with 105 receptions?
How many touchdowns did Ronnie Hillman make?
What was Manning's passer rating for the 2015 season?
How many interceptions did manning have in 2015?
What Denver player caught the ball 76 times in the 2015 season?
Who was the Broncos' leading rusher for the 2015 season?
What was Ronnie Hillman's average yards per carry in 2015?
How many yards did the Broncos' defense give up?
How many sacks did Derek Wolfe register?
Who was first on the team in total tackles?
How many picks did Aqib Talib have?
What position does DeMarcus currently play?
What position does Brandon Marshall currently play?
What is the position Derek Wolfe plays currently?
How many points did the Broncos defense allow their opponents to get?
Which linebacker had the most sacks on the team?
Which linebacker led the Broncos in tackles?
How many interceptions did Aqib Talib have for the regular season?
Who forced four fumbles for the Broncos in the 2015 season?
What Denver player had 109 tackels for the 2015 season?
What two Denver players ranked at 5 percent for sacks?
Who lost to the Panthers in the divisional round of the playoffs?
Who did the Panthers face in the NFC Championship Game?
How many total yards did the Panthers have in the NFC Championship?
How many times did Arizona turn the ball over in the NFC Championship?
What was the final score of the game between the Panthers and the Seahawks?
What was the team the Carolina Panthers played immediately prior to the NFC Championship game?
What was the score of the last game the Carolina Panthers played prior to the NFC Championship?
How many yards did the Carolina Panthers gain in the 487 in the NFC Championship Game?
Who did Carolina beat in the divisional round?
Who did the Panthers play to advance to the Super Bowl?
How many turnovers did the Panthers force during the NFC Championship game?
Who did the Panthers beat in the divisional round?
What was the score for the 2015 NFC championship game?
Who did the Panthers play in their division championship game?
How many yards did the Panthers get for the division championshipt game?
Who lost to the Broncos in the divisional round?
How many points did the Broncos score in the last three minutes of the game versus Pittsburgh?
Who won Super Bowl XLIX?
What was the final score of the AFC Championship Game?
How much time remained on the clock when the Broncos made the interception that clinched the AFC Championship Game?
What team was the divisional round winner between the Broncos and Steelers?
What was the final score of the game between the Broncos and Steelers?
Who won Super Bowl XLIX?
How many seconds were left in the game when the Broncos intercepted the pass that won the game?
During the Bronco's playoff games, who did not throw at all?
Who did the Broncos beat in the divisional game?
How many points did the Broncos score in the final three minutes of the Pittsburgh game?
Who did the Broncos defeat in the AFC Championship game?
Who did the Broncos beat to win their division in 2015?
Who did the Broncos beat tp become the AFC champions?
How many seconds were left in the game when the Patriots failed their 2-point conversion?
What Carolina player was injured in the NFC Championship Game?
What injury did Thomas Davis suffer in the NFC Championship?
How many times had Thomas Davis torn his ACL in his career?
How many years has Thomas Davis played in the NFL?
What injury did Thomas Davis suffer from repeatedly, for a total of three times, during his career?
What body part did Thomas Davis break during the NFC Championship Game?
How many years has Thomas Davis played in the NFL?
What game did Thomas Davis say he would play in, despite breaking a bone earlier on?
How many ACL injuries has Thomas Davis had during his career?
What injury did Thomas Davis suffer during the playoff games?
How many years had Thomas Davis played in the league when he broke his arm during the NFC Championship game?
Who suffered a broken arm in the NFC Championship Game?
How old was Peyton Manning when he played in Super Bowl 50?
Who previously held the record for being the oldest quarterback to play in a Super Bowl?
How old was John Elway when he played in Super Bowl XXXIII?
What role does John Elway currently have in the Broncos franchise?
Who did John Elway play for in Super Bowl XXXIII?
What team was the winner of Super Bowl XXXIII?
Who is the General Manager for the Broncos?
How old was Elway during his Super Bowl XXXIII win?
Who has the record of being the oldest quarter back in any Super Bowl game?
How many teams has Manning played for that reached the Super Bowl, while he was on their team?
Peyton Manning took how many different teams to the Super Bowl?
Who is the oldest quarterback to play in a Super Bowl?
Prior to Manning, who was the oldest quarterback to play in a Super Bowl?
Which Super Bowl did Elway win at 38 years old?
Who was the first quarterback to take two teams to more than one Super Bowl?
How old was Manning when he played Super Bowl 50?
What is the name of the quarterback who was 38 in Super Bowl XXXIII?
When was Manning picked #1 in the NFL Draft?
When was Newton the first selection in the NFL Draft?
How old was Newton during Super Bowl 50?
How much older was Manning than Newton during Super Bowl 50?
Who was the #2 pick in the 2011 NFL Draft?
Who was considered to be the first choice in the NFL draft of 1998?
In 2011, who was the first player to be chosen in the NFL draft?
How old was Newton during Super Bowl 50?
What position did Newton play during Super Bowl 50?
Manning was the number one pick in which draft?
Newton was the number one pick in which draft?
Who was the number two draft pick for 2011?
What year did Newton hold the number one draft pick position?
How old was Newton in Super Bowl 50?
What was the age difference between Newton and Manning in Super Bowl 50?
In what Super Bowl did Rivera play?
What team did Rivera play for in Super Bowl XX?
What position did Rivera play in Super Bowl XX?
Who was replaced by Kubiak in Super Bowl XXIV?
What team did Kubiak play for in Super Bowl XXI?
What position did Rivera play in Super Bowl XX?
Who did Kubiak take the place of after Super Bowl XXIV?
Who was the Panthers head coach for the 2015 season?
What Super Bowl did Rivera play in as a player?
Who slipped on the Levi's Stadium turf in week 6 of the 2015 NFL season?
What is the name of the turf used in Levi's Stadium for the Super Bowl?
Who is the field director of the NFL?
What team did Justin Tucker play for?
What position did Justin Tucker play?
Which player did the turf collapse under during a game in the Levi's Stadium?
What position does Tucker play for with the Ravens?
What was used to sod the Levi's Stadium for Super Bowl 50?
Which kicker had a portion of the turf collapse, causing him to miss a field goal?
What did the NFL do to the playing field at Levi's Stadium before the Super Bowl?
What covered the new field at Levi's Stadium?
What did a lot of players need to change during Super Bowl 50 because of the condition of the field?
What player did the field problem at Levi's stadium affect for a field goal in week six of the regular season?
What field type is usually chosen for Super Bowl games?
Who was designated as the home team in the Super Bowl?
What was the final score of Super Bowl XXXIII?
What team lost Super Bowl XXXIII?
What color pants did the Broncos wear in Super Bowl 50?
What was Elway's final game as the Denver quarterback?
What was the last game that Elway played as a quarterback for Denver?
What was the final score for Super Bowl XXXIII?
What team did the Denver Broncos play in Super Bowl XXXIII?
What color were the Bronco's uniforms in Super Bowl 50?
What jersey did the Broncos wear for Super Bowl 50?
Who is the only other AFC Champion team to wear road jerseys in a Super Bowl?
What was th elast Super Bowl where the Broncos wore white uniforms?
What was the color of the jerseys in Super Bowl XXXII when Elway was quarterback?
What color jersey has Denver 0-4?
Since Denver chose white, what colors did Carolina wear in Super Bowl 50?
At what university's facility did the Panthers practice?
At what university's facility did the Broncos practice?
In what city's Marriott did the Panthers stay?
In what city's Marriott did the Broncos stay?
What hotel did the Panthers stay in during Super Bowl 50?
What was the name of the hotel the Panthers chose to stay in during Super Bowl 50?
Where did the Panthers practice at for Super Bowl 50?
Where did the Broncos practice at for Super Bowl 50?
Where did the Panthers practice for the Super Bowl?
Which hotel did the Panthers stay at for the Super Bowl?
Where did the Broncos practice for the Super Bowl?
Which hotel did the Broncos use for Super Bowl 50?
Where was the practice place the Panthers used for the Super Bowl?
Where hotel did the Panthers stay at?
Where did the Broncos practice for the Super Bowl?
Where did the Broncos stay at for Super Bowl 50?
When did the NFL announce the suspension of using Roman numerals to brand the Super Bowl?
What was the first Super Bowl branded with Roman numerals?
Who is the NFL's vice president of brand and creative?
What was the first Super Bowl to use the standardized logo template?
Who is the trophy featured on the logo named for?
In what year was it declared that no Roman numerals would be used in the name of the 50th Super Bowl?
Which Super Bowl, after the 50th one, will begin have Roman numerals in the title again?
If Roman numerals were used in the naming of the 50th Super Bowl, which one would have been used?
What color are the numbers in the Super Bowl 50 logo?
When did the NFL announce that it would not use Roman numbers to designate the Super Bowl number?
Rather than Roman numerals, what did the NFL decide to use?
What is the Roman numeral for 50?
Normally silver, what color was used for the number 50?
When will Roman numerals be used again to denote the Super Bowl number?
What type of numeral did the latest Super Bowl use to designate the game number?
What is the Roman numeral going to be for Super Bowl 51?
What color was featured in promotions related to Super Bowl 50?
When did sideline jackets and hats start to feature gold-trimmed logos?
What yard marker on the field was painted gold?
What color was used to create the 50-yard line in Levi's Stadium for the season leading up to the Super Bowl 50 game?
What color were the footballs handed out to a variety of high schools, leading up to Super Bowl 50?
Because of the gold theme, what was Super Bowl 50 known as?
What was given to high schools where former students went on to play or coach in a Super Bowl?
What yard line was a gold color for all teams during the season?
Since this was the 50th one, what was the theme color for the Super Bowl?
In what venue did the NFL Experience take place?
In what city is the Moscone Center located?
Who is the mayor of San Francisco?
Who is the city supervisor of San Francisco?
When was the opening of "Super Bowl City"?
How many people were estimated to go to the different game-themed events during the week prior to Super Bowl 50 in the city it was held in?
Who was the mayor of San Francisco during Super Bowl 50?
Which building was the NFL Experience held at for Super Bowl 50?
What was the name of the event at the The Embarcadero that was held prior to Super Bowl 50 to help show off some of the things that San Francisco has to offer?
Where was the NFL Experience held for the 2015 season?
What opened on January 30th at the Justin Herman plaza?
Who is the mayor of San Francisco?
What football associated thing started at Justin Herman Plaza in January?
How many people are likely to visit Justin Herman Plaza during the week of the Super Bowl?
Who said the homeless in the area would have to leave?
How much did San Francisco get for providing services for the Super Bowl?
What did the Moscone Center host?
At what university is Bellomy Field located?
How much money is being spent on other Super Bowl-related events?
How long will the event at Santa Clara Convention Center last?
How much money was spent on other festivities in the Bay area to help celebrate the coming Super Bowl 50?
What type of rally was held?
Which government entity helped to pay for the festivities, beyond businesses and individuals?
Where was a beer, wine and food festival held at prior to the Super Bowl?
Who helped find sponsors and donors to help with the cost?
Who set aside seed funding for the week-long event leading up to the Super Bowl?
What was the cost of the other Super Bowl events in the San Francisco area?
Who may have been called upon to fund the festival associated with the Super Bowl in Santa Clara?
On what day was Super Bowl Opening Night held?
On what day does the Super Bowl media day traditionally take place?
What venue hosted Super Bowl Opening Night?
In what city is SAP Center located?
A replica of what landmark was present at Super Bowl Opening Night?
As a norm, what day of the week is the traditional Media Day held prior to a Super Bowl?
What day of the week was Media Day held on for Super Bowl 50?
What was the name of the Media Day event for Super Bowl 50?
What is the name of the property where the media event was held for Super Bowl 50?
What city was the media event held for Super Bowl 50?
When is the game's media day usually held?
What new name was given to the media day?
Where was media day for Super Bowl 50 held?
What replica was used for player introductions?
What day was Super Bowl 50 media day switched to?
What was media day called for Super Bowl 50?
Where was the new media day event for Super Bowl 50 held?
What bridge had a model of it at the Super Bowl Opening Night?
What date was Super Bowl Opening Night held?
What is the name of the program that provides contracting work to local companies?
How much money has been raised by the host committee?
What health company was a Super Bowl sponsor?
What clothing company was a Super Bowl sponsor?
What petroleum company was a Super Bowl sponsor?
Which committee made an effort to invite companies owned by people, who are transgender or gay, to take part in contract business associated with Super Bowl 50.
How much money did the committee raise?
How did the committee raise the money?
What is the Super Bowl program called that gives local companies business opportunities for the Super Bowl?
What is the name of the service that gets local businesses contract chances with the Super Bowl?
According to the text, how much money did the Host Committee raise?
What percentage of money raised by the Host Committee will be used for charitable causes?
What is the name of the Host Committee's charitable initiative?
What percentage of funds were given as charitable funds to causes in and around San Francisco?
What was the name of the fund setup to help with investing in the community?
The Super Bowl 50 Host Committee said it would be the most what ever?
How many will the host committee dedicate to local charities?
What is the name of the fund that focuses on youth, community and sustainable environments?
What percentage of money raised was earmarked for causes in the San Francisco area?
What was the name of the work to give grants for youth development and other things?
Who is the trophy given to the Super Bowl champion named for?
The "50" given to the Super Bowl winner is plated with how many karats of gold?
What will the "50" given to the Super Bowl winner weigh in pounds?
Who designed the "50"?
Who designed the Vince Lombardi Trophy?
What is the name of the trophy given to anyone who plays on the winning team in a Super Bowl?
What will the number "50" be plated with?
Who is the designer of the "50?"
What is the name of the trophy that all Super Bowl winners receive?
Who designs both the "50" as well as the Trophy?
On what television station could an American viewer watch the game?
Who, with Jim Nantz, was a member of the game's lead broadcast team?
Who shared sideline duties with Evan Washburn?
How many cameras did EyeVision 360 utilize?
What was the resolution of the cameras used in the EyeVision 360 system?
How many different TV networks are considered to be the principal partners, when it comes to broadcasting NFL events?
Where was Tracy Wolfson announcing from during the Super Bowl 50 game?
New cameras were introduced for the game, what degree of view do they provide viewers?
What resolution were the cameras increased to for the game?
Where was Evan Washburn located while announcing during the game?
Which television network aired the Super Bowl?
How many broadcast television partners does the NFL have?
What network aired Super Bowl 50?
Who were the announcers of Super Bowl 50?
Who were the Super Bowl 50 sideline announcers?
What resolution were the Eyevision cameras changed to?
What was put on pylons for Super Bowl 50?
Which network broadcast the game in Spanish?
Who reported on the sideline for ESPN Deportes?
Who provided Spanish-language commentary alongside Raul Allegre?
On what date did ESPN Deportes announce their deal with CBS and the NFL?
In what language did ESPN Deportes broadcast the game?
Which TV network broadcasted Super Bowl 50 in Spanish?
Who exclusively broadcast the game in Spanish after reaching an agreement with the NFL and CBS?
Who was the sideline reporter for ESPN Deportes?
What agency did the Spanish version of the Super Bowl?
Who were the ESPN Deportes commentators for Super Bowl 50?
Who was the ESPN Deportes sideline commentator for Super Bowl 50?
What service did Verizon customers need to use to stream the game on their smartphones?
On what service could the ESPN Deportes broadcast be streamed?
What CBS website provided a stream?
On what game console was the CBS Sports app available?
What version of Windows supported the CBS sports app?
What was the domain name of the site that streamed the Super Bowl 50 game?
Which game console could viewers stream the game on?
Which smartphone customers were the only people who could stream the game on their phones?
What app did viewers use to watch the game on their smartphones?
Which wireless company had exclusive streaming rights on mobile phones?
Which mobile service were Verizon customers able to watch Super Bowl 50 on their phones?
What did CBS provide of the Super Bowl 50 broadcast for its website, some apps and media players?
What cellular carrier had the only contract for the Super Bowl to be shown on smartphones?
Where was the ESPN Deportes Spanish version of Super Bowl 50 available?
What talk show followed immediately after Super Bowl 50 on CBS?
What show aired on CBS after late local programming?
Which late night comedy host show played immediately after Super Bowl 50 ended?
What other CBS talk show played, after the main one that began immediately after Super Bowl 50?
What CBS show followed the Super Bowl?
What followed The Late Show with Stephen Colbert?
What followed the late local programming after Super Bowl 50?
What was the base rate for a 30-second ad during Super Bowl 50?
What beverage company signed a contract allowing them to broadcast ads at a discount?
What brand sponsored the "Crash the Super Bowl" contest?
What anniversary of the Pokémon franchise was celebrated during the Super Bowl?
What was the starting cost for a TV commercial lasting 30 seconds and airing during Super Bowl 50?
Which company was given permission to air TV commercials during Super Bowl 50 at a discounted price?
Which company held a contest whereupon contestants could enter for a chance to have their own commercial shown during Super Bowl 50?
Which video gaming company debuted their ad for the first time during Super Bowl 50?
Who made their Super Bowl commercial debut with Nintendo?
Which company has been able to air multiple ads at a steep discount?
Which company has held contests for fans to create their own ad for the company?
What company was in its last year for getting Super Bowl commercials at a big discount?
What company was this the last Super Bowl they would let customers have an opportunity to get their own commercial ideas aired?
What was the Doritos customer Super Bowl ad campaign called?
What was the name of the contest sponsored by QuickBooks?
What company won a free advertisement due to the QuickBooks contest?
How long was the Death Wish Coffee commercial?
Besides Death Wish Coffee, how many other competitors participated in the contest?
Which company won a contest to have their ad shown for free during Super Bowl 50?
How many other contestants did the company, that had their ad shown for free, beat out?
Which company sponsored a contest called "Small Business Big Game"?
Which company had a commercial aired for free as a result of the Quickbooks contest?
How many companies were part of the Quickbooks contest?
What company had a contest to win a free Super Bowl commercial?
Who won the competition to get a free Super Bowl commercial aired?
What Universal trailer debuted during the Super Bowl?
What Lionsgate trailer was shown during the Super Bowl?
Along with 10 Cloverfield Lane, what Paramount trailer appeared during the Super Bowl?
What was the subtitle of the Independence Day movie that had a trailer during the Super Bowl?
What film did Lionsgate pay to have the trailer aired during the Super Bowl?
Paramount paid fo, 10 Cloverfield Lane and which other film trailer to be aired during the game?
Universal Paid for The Secret Life of Pets and which other film trailer?
Disney paid for The Jungle Book, Alice Through the Looking Glass, and which other film trailer to be aired during the game?
What famous July Fourth holiday movie did Fox pay to advertise a sequel of during the Super Bowl?
What movie company paid to have the next Jason Bourne movie ad shown during the Super Bowl?
What company paid for a Super Bowl 50 ad to show a trailer of X-Men: Apocalypse?
What radio network carried the Super Bowl?
Who did play-by-play on Westwood One?
Who handled pre-game coverage on Westwood One?
Along with Dan Fouts, who served as a color analyst for the radio broadcast?
Who shared sideline reporting duties with Mark Malone?
How many color analysts were involved with Super Bowl 50?
Who announced the game play-by-play for Super Bowl 50?
Who will carry the game throughout all of North America?
Who is the play-by-play announcer for the game?
Who covered the halftime coverage?
Who was the announcer for Westwood One's Super Bowl 50 coverage?
Who were the Westwood one color analysts?
Who were the Westwood One sideline announcers?
What did Jim Gray cover?
What area did the Westwood One broadcast cover?
What radio station is located at 103.5FM on the dial in Denver?
Who handled play-by-play for the Denver radio market?
What is the frequency of the radio station WBT in North Carolina?
In what city is WBT-FM located?
Who did play-by-play for the WBT broadcast?
Who handled the play-by-play for the Denver radio stations?
Who handled the color commentary for Denver's radio stations?
Which station covered the game for North Carolina?
Who handled the play-by-play for WBT?
What two radio stations in Denver carried Super Bowl 50?
What radio station in South Carolina carried the Super Bowl 50 game?
What BBC radio station will carry the game in the United Kingdom?
Aside from BBC Radio 5, what radio station will broadcast the game?
Who makes up the BBC commentary team with Greg Brady and Rocky Boiman?
What British TV network will carry the Super Bowl?
British commentators include, Darren Fletcher, Rocky Boiman and who else?
Who was the Most Valuable Player of Super Bowl II?
What player won the MVP in Super Bowl V?
Who was the Most Valuable Player of Super Bowl XLI?
In what year did Harvey Martin die?
Who is the present quarterback of the Broncos?
How many of the prior Super Bowl MVPs appeared together at the pregame show?
What former MVP was shown in the locker room?
Which MVP died in 2001?
How many players have been awarded the Most Valuable Player distinction for the Super Bowl?
How many former MVP honorees were present for a pregame ceremony?
Who was the MVP of Super Bowl I and II?
Who was the MVP of Super Bowl XLI?
Which MVP honoree died in 2001?
How many Grammys has Lady Gaga won?
What did Lady Gaga sing?
What award has Marlee Matlin won?
What did Marlee Matlin translate?
Into what language did Marlee Matlin translate the national anthem?
Who sang the national anthem?
What actress did the ASL translation for the game?
Who did the National Anthem at Super Bowl 50?
What actor did sign language for the National Anthem at Superbowl 50?
Who did the Super Bowl 50 National Anthem?
How many Grammy Award's does the text say Lady Gaga has won?
Who did the sign language of the National Anthem at Super Bowl 50?
On what date did the NFL announce that Coldplay would headline the halftime show?
What nationality is the band Coldplay?
At what Super Bowl did Beyoncé headline the halftime show?
What was the name of the single that Coldplay and Beyoncé collaborated on?
What previous Super Bowl halftime show did Bruno Mars headline?
Who lead the halftime show of Super Bowl 50?
What company confirmed that Beyoncé would participate in the Super Bowl 50 halftime show?
What song did Coldplay and Beyoncé collaborate on for the Super Bowl 50 halftime show?
Who headlined the Super Bowl 50 halftime show?
On January 7, 2016, it was confirmed that which start would join Coldplay for the halftime show?
Which single did Beyoncé and Coldplay collaborate on?
What other former halftime show performer joined Coldplay and Beyoncé for the Super Bowl 50 halftime show?
What team received the opening kickoff?
Who was at the receiving end of a 22-yard pass from Peyton Manning?
Who lost 3 yards on a tackle by Shaq Thompson?
Who kicked a field goal for Denver?
Who ran the ball twice for 20 yards on this drive?
How many yards was the pass on the first drive?
Who tackled Ronnie Hillman for a loss of yardage?
Who kicked the field goal for Denver on the first drive of Super Bowl 50?
This was the first time that the Carolina team faced what in the post season?
Which team had the first kickoff?
Who did Peyton Manning complete an 18 yard pass to on the opening drive?
Which Denver player took the ball to the Panthers 14 yard line?
Who scored the first points for Denver?
What did Carolina face in the opening drive that they had not faced the entire postseason?
Which former referee served as an analyst for CBS?
Whose pass to Jerricho Cotchery was ruled incomplete?
Who stripped the ball from Cam Newton while sacking him on this drive?
Which player recovered possession of the ball in the end zone?
What Super Bowl was the last where a fumble was returned for a touchdown?
Who received the pass that was ruled incomplete and confirmed after a challenge?
What analyst did not agree with the ruling of the incomplete pass?
Who, according to the text, caused Cam Newton to lose the ball during a tackle?
Who received the ball that cam Newton lost during a tackle to make it a Denver touchdown?
What year was the last time a fumble return touchdown like this occurred?
Which retired ref disagreed with the outcome of the challenge of a incomplete pass?
Who sacked Newton a few plays after the challenge?
Who recovered the fumble and ran the ball in for a touchdown?
When is the last time a fumble return touchdown happened in a Super Bowl?
Who ran for a Carolina touchdown to make the score 10–7?
Who punted the ball for Carolina?
How many yards did Brad Nortman's punt travel?
How many yards did Jordan Norwood return a punt to set the Super Bowl record?
How many yards was the McManus field goal?
How many passing yards did Cam Newton get for his 4 of 4 passes?
Who got a touchdown making the score 10-7?
How much time was left in the quarter when Stewart got the touchdown?
Who got a 61-yard return when players thought he called for a fair catch but did not?
How many yards was the field goal that made the score 13-7 in Super Bowl 50?
Who scored the Panthers first touchdown?
How did Denver score at the end of the drive?
Who tackled Mike Tolbert and caused a fumble?
What position does Danny Trevathan play?
Which Panther tipped a Manning pass to himself and picked it off?
Who was sacked as the first half clock expired?
Who sacked Cam Newton at the end of the half?
Who fumbled the ball when tackled by Darian Stewart?
Who tipped Peyton's pass for an interception?
How many yards did the interception gain when the ball was tipped away from Manning?
Who tackled the Carolina Panthers' quarterback just before the end of the first half?
Which fullback fumbled the ball after a Darian Stewart tackle?
Who recovered Tolbert's fumble?
Who intercepted a Manning pass, giving the ball back to the Panthers?
How did the drive end for the Panthers?
Who sacked Newton with 11 seconds left in the first half?
Who was on the receiving end of a 45-yard pass from Cam Newton?
Who missed a field goal for the Panthers?
How many yards was the missed field goal?
What kicker was successful on a 33-yard field goal?
Who picked off Cam Newton and subsequently fumbled the ball?
Who did Newton complete a 45 yard pass to on the opening drive of the second half?
What did Gano hit on his 44-yard field goal attempt?
Which Broncos player intercepted Newton on the Panthers' next set of downs?
Who recovered Ward's fumble?
Who did Newton get a pass to in the Panther starting plays of Super Bowl 50?
What yard line did the Broncos stop the Panthers on in their first offensive drive of Super Bowl 50?
Who hit the goal post on a field goal attempt?
Who caught two passes from Manning after the failed Carolina field goal attempt?
Who recovered a Manning fumble?
Graham Gano kicked a field goal of how many yards?
Who caught a 16-yard pass on this drive?
Who had a 12-yard rush on this drive?
Early in the fourth quarter, The Broncos drove to what yard line of the Panthers?
Who knocked the ball out of Manning's hands on the next play?
Where was the ball recovered?
What did the next three drives result in?
What is the last name of the player who bumped the ball away from Manning in the fourth quarter of Super Bowl 50?
What yard line was the Broncos on when Manning lost the ball in the fourth quarter?
How many yards was the field goal Gano made to make the score 16-10?
How many of the following three fourth quarter drives after the field goal makng the score 16-10 ended in punts?
On what yard line did Carolina begin with 4:51 left in the game?
Who fumbled the ball on 3rd-and-9?
What Panther defender was called for holding on third down?
What player punched the ball in from the 2?
Who was the receiver on the successful 2-point conversion?
Who stripped the ball from Newton on a 3rd and nine?
Who recovered the strip ball?
Which player was criticized for not jumping into the pile to recover the ball?
Which Panthers player got a penalty, which gave the Broncos a new set of downs?
How much time was left in the game when Denver took the score to 24-10?
What was the time on the clock when Carolina got the ball to their 24-yard line in the fourth quarter?
What was the last name of the player who took the ball away from Newton late in the fourth quarter?
What is the last name of the player who finally recovered the ball Newton lost in the fourth quarter?
How many plays was Denver kept out of the end zone after getting the ball from Newton?
What is the last name of the player who scored a 2-yard touchdown in the fourth quarter?
How many solo sacks did Von Miller have in the game?
How many touchdowns did Manning throw in the game?
How many field goals did McManus kick in the game?
What player played in the Super Bowl after breaking his arm two weeks before?
How many picks did Cam Newton throw?
How many interceptions did Manning have at the end of the game?
How many touchdowns did Manning have at the end of the game?
Who was the game's leading rusher?
Who was the game's top receiver?
Which player played even though he broke his arm two weeks prior to the Super Bowl?
What is the last name of the player who was Manning's top receiver for Super Bowl 50?
What is th elast name of the player who was the Super Bowl 50 winner's leading rusher?
How many of the four field goal attempts did McManus succeed at during SUper Bowl 50?
How many intercpetions did Newton have in Super Bowl 50?
How many total tackles did Charles Johnson have in Super Bowl 50?
How many total yards did Denver gain?
How many first downs did Denver have?
What team had 244 yards in Super Bowl XXXV?
Who returned a punt for 61 yards, setting a new Super Bowl record?
Who is the only quarterback to win a Super Bowl with two teams?
How many yards did Denver have for Super Bowl 50?
How many first downs did Denver have for Super Bowl 50?
Who did the Broncos tie with the most sacks in a Super Bowl?
Which team did Gary Kubiak play for when he was in the Super Bowl?
How many first downs did the Panthers have in Super Bowl 50?
How many first downs did the Broncos have in Super Bowl 50?
What team had the lowest downs and yards ever in the Super Bowl as of Super Bowl 50?
What team di the Broncos tie a Super Bowl record for in sacks?
How many teams has Manning won the Super Bowl with?
What was Maria Curie the first female recipient of?
What year was Casimir Pulaski born in Warsaw?
Who was one of the most famous people born in Warsaw?
Who was Frédéric Chopin?
How old was Chopin when he moved to Warsaw with his family?
Over how many species of trees can be found in the Saxon Garden?
What is a popular strolling destination for the Varsovians?
What garden was formally only for royalty?
Which end of the Saxon Garden is the Tom of the Unknown Soldier located at?
What park covers an area of 76 ha.?
How far from Warsaw does the Vistula river's environment change noticeably?
What animals does the Vistula river's ecosystem include?
How many natural reserves are in Warsaw?
How many lakes are there in Warsaw?
Why are the small lakes in the parks emptied before winter?
What was Warsaw the most diverse of in Poland?
How many of Warsaw's inhabitants spoke Polish in 1933?
What percentage of the population of Warsaw was Jewish in 1897?
What was there a significant minority of in Warsaw?
What is most of Warsaw's modern growth based on?
What is the second academic school of technology in Poland?
How many professors does the Warsaw University of Technology employ?
What is the largest medical school in Poland?
What year was the University of Warsaw established?
What is one of the largest music schools in Europe?
When was the University Library founded?
How many items is the University Library home to?
What profession does Zbigniew Badowski have?
Who designed the garden for the University Library?
How much area does the University Library garden cover?
What suffered considerably for Warsaw when it had an Eastern Bloc economy?
What was a major success, especially in rebuilding Warsaw?
Why has Warsaw seen many improvements over the past decade?
Warsaw's sidewalks and sanitation facilities are some examples of things which have what?
Where are some of the best medical facilities in East-Central Europe located?
What is the highest reference hospital in all of Poland?
What is one of the largest and most modern oncological institutions in Europe?
How many beds does the Maria Sklodowska-Curie Institute of Oncology have?
What has the infrastructure done a lot of over the past years?
What type of venue is the Teatr Wielki?
What does Warsaw host many of?
Where is the Congress Hall located?
Where is the Jazz Jamboree hosted?
Warsaw Summer Jazz Days is one of the many what hosted by Warsaw?
What is the Saxon Garden in Polish?
Where was the Summer Theatre located?
How long was the Summer Theatre in operation?
What was Warsaw's first literary cabaret?
What theatre was the best example of "Polish monumental theatre"?
What is the polish word for wreaths?
How man people gather along the banks of the Vistula for the Wianki festival?
When is the Wianki festival held?
What will maidens be able to predict by floating their wreaths down the Vistula?
What type of flower is sought on Midsummer's Eve?
What does the world's first Museum of Posters have one of the largest collections of in the world?
How many museums are in Warsaw?
Warsaw's National Museum is one of the most what?
What does the National Museum boast having from Adolf Hitler's private collection?
What does the Museum of the Polish Army portray the history of?
Where can a tribute to the fall of Warsaw be found?
What museum preserves the memory of the crime?
What type of theatre is the Warsaw Fotoplastikon?
Where in Warsaw are patriotic and political objects connected with Poland's struggles for Independence found?
How many rooms does the Warsaw Historical Museum have?
What castle currently houses the Centre for Contemporary Art?
How many projects does the Centre currently realize a year?
What is the oldest exhibition site in Warsaw?
What does the Zachta National Gallery of Art organize exhibitions of art from?
When is the Warsaw Gallery Weekend held?
Who won the Ekstraklasa Championship in 2000?
When did Polonia Warsaw win the country's championship prior to 2000?
How many times has Polonia won the cup?
Where is Polonia's home venue located?
Why was Polonia relegated from the country's top flight in 2013?
What is polish for "mermaid"?
What is Warsaw's symbol?
How long has the imagery of the mermaid been used by Warsaw?
When is the oldest armed seal of Warsaw from?
What does the sea monster with a female upper body hold in its claws?
What did Artur Oppman give to the world?
Where did two of Triton's daughters set out on a journey through?
Where did one of Triton's daughters decide she wanted to hang out and stay?
A mermaid stopped to rest on the sandy beach by what village?
What did a greedy merchant do to the mermaid?
Where was the famous artist Tamara de Lempicka born?
When did Tamara marry a lawyer?
What did Lempicka represent better than anyone else?
What profession was Nathan Alterman?
Who loved Warsaw so much that he kept putting it in his novels?
Who ranked Warsaw as the 32nd most liveable city in the world?
When was Warsaw ranked as the 32nd most liveable city in the world?
What is Warsaw's economy characterized by?
What exchange in Warsaw is one of the most important for Central and Eastern Europe?
What is the name of the European Union agency for external border security?
When is the first reference in history to Warsaw?
What city served as Poland's capital in 1313?
When did Warsaw become the capital of the Kingdom of Poland?
Who moved his court from Kraków to Warsaw in 1596?
Why did Warsaw gain the title of the "Phoenix City"?
What archdiocese is Warsaw the seat of?
What is another notable university in Warsaw after the University of Warsaw?
What was Warsaw's Old Town listed as in 1980?
King Sigimund's Column is an example of what kind of attraction in Warsaw?
What is a quarter of Warsaw filled with?
What is Warsaw's name in the Polish language?
What does Warszawa mean in Polish?
Who was Warsz?
What did Warsz own?
What is the full official city name of Warsaw?
What city, raided by clans and dukes, preceded the founding of Warszowa?
Who was Boleslaw II of Masovia?
When was the settlement which would become Warsaw established?
In what year did Warszowa become the official capital of the Masovian Duchy?
When was the Masovian Duchy reincorporated into the Polish Crown?
Who did Warsaw serve as the seat for in 1529?
When did the General Sejm make Warsaw it's permanent seat?
What did the Warsaw Confederation formally establish in 1573?
Why did Warsaw become the capital of the Commonwealth?
What year did King Sigismund III Vasa move his court to Warsaw?
How long was Warsaw the capital of the Polish-Lithuanian Commonwealth?
What kingdom annexed Warsaw in 1796?
Whose army liberated Warsaw in 1806?
When did Warsaw become the center of the Congress Poland?
When was the Royal University of Warsaw established?
How long was Warsaw occupied by Germany?
What did Article 12 of the Allied Armistice terms require Germany to withdraw from?
Who set up what became the Second Polish Republic?
When was the Polish-Bolshevik war fought?
What army did Warsaw successfully defend itself against?
When did Germany invade Poland and in doing so start World War II?
Who was Warsaw under the administration of when it came under the rule of the General Goverment?
How much of Warsaw's population was Jewish?
When did Hitler order the annihilation of the Warsaw Ghetto?
How long were the fighters of the Warsaw Ghetto Uprising able to hold out?
What army was pushing deep into Polish territory to pursue the Germans in 1944?
Why did the exiled Polish government in London order the underground Home Army to seize control of Warsaw prior to the arrival of the Red Army?
When did the Warsaw Uprising begin?
How many days did the Warsaw Uprising last?
What is the estimated death toll for Polish civilians?
What campaign did the Communist regime initiate after WWII?
What type of housing was erected in Warsaw as part of the Bricks for Warsaw process?
What were the structures built by the Soviets typical of?
What building was a gift from the Soviet Union?
What list was Warsaw's Old Town inscribed onto in 1980?
What pope as a native of Poland?
What did John Paul II's visits in 1979 and 1983 encourage?
How long had John Paul II been the pope in 1979?
Where did John Paul II celebrate Mass in Warsaw?
What did the Polish citizens understand the subtext of John Paul II's words to be?
How many kilometers is Warsaw from the Carpathian Mountains?
How many miles east of Berlin is Warsaw?
What river does Warsaw straddle?
How high is the highest point in Warsaw?
Where is the lowest point of Warsaw located?
How many geomorphologic formations is Warsaw on?
What formation has an asymmetrical pattern of different terraces?
Which plateau is the left part of Warsaw on?
What is the axis of Warsaw which divides it into two parts?
What is the edge of the moraine plateau called?
What plateau has groups of clay pits?
What does the highest level of the Vistula plateau contain?
What does the currently flooded terrace still have visible?
Where can Aeolian sand with a number of dunes be found?
What type of forested areas can be found on the highest terrace?
What does Warsaw's mixture of architectural styles reflect?
When was Warsaw completely razed to the ground by bombing raids?
When did Warsaw start to rebuild?
What building from the 19th century was destroyed between the 1950s and 1960s?
What style were the mass constructed residential blocks designed in?
What type of architecture is represented in the majestic churches?
When was St. John's Cathedral constructed?
What is St. John's Cathedral an example of, stylistically?
The house of the Baryczko merchant family is a notable example of what type of architecture?
What is the Royal Castle the most interesting example of?
When did building activity in the palaces and churches take place in the later decades of?
When did building activity occur on St. Kazimierz Church?
What type of architecture is the Palace of Four Windows an impressive example of?
What is being described when simplicity of geometrical forms are teamed with inspiration from the Roman period?
When was the Palace on the Water rebuilt?
The Kronenberg Palace had been an exceptional example of what type of architecture?
Why aren't the examples of bouregois architecture visible today?
What style was the Warsaw Philharmony edifice built in?
What building is the most interesting of the late 19th-century architecture?
What were the Saxon Palace and Brühl Palace in prewar Warsaw?
What commemorates Warsaw's heroic history?
What was the name of the infamous German Gestapo prison?
What fortification was built in the 19th century after the defeat of the November Uprising?
Who does the statue of Little Insurgent commemorate?
What monument is in memory of the largest insurrection of WWII?
What type of space in Warsaw are the Botanic Garden and University Library garden?
Where is a palm house with subtropic plants from all over the world on display?
Where was the first horse racetrack located?
What park is close to John Lennon street?
When was a zoological garden established in the Praga Park?
Why is Warsaw's flora very rich in species?
Where is Bielany Forest located?
What is the Bielany Forest the last remnant of?
What forest is by Warsaw's southern border?
How many botanical gardens does Warsaw have?
How many people lived in Warsaw in 1939?
What had the number of people living in Warsaw declined to by 1945?
When did the Warsaw area enlargement take place?
What conviction did many Poles have regarding how the Varsovians thought of themselves?
What are there no longer limitations on since 1990?
What type of city has Warsaw been for as long as it's been a city?
What was Warsaw's population in 1901?
Of Warsaw's inhabitants in 1901, what percentage was Catholic?
What percentage of Warsaw's population was Protestant in 1901?
When were most of the places of religious worship destroyed in Warsaw?
What is the basic unit of territorial division in Poland?
What is the second level of territorial division in Poland?
In what districts are the registration numbers for cars all of the same type?
Who in Warsaw has the power of legislative action?
How many members are on the Warsaw City Counil?
How often are elections for the counsel held?
What does the City Council divide itself into?
How many days does the Council have to override the mayor's veto?
What is the mayor of Warsaw called?
Who was the first Warsaw President?
When did Menich serve as President?
Who has elected the President of Warsaw since 1990?
What district of Warsaw chose the President between 1994 and 1999?
What is the city centre of Warsaw called in Polish?
How many companies were registered in Warsaw in 2006?
What was Warsaw ranked the 7th greatest of?
How much of Poland's national income does Warsaw produce?
What was the total nominal GDP of Warsaw in 2010?
When was Warsaw's first stock exchange established?
What brought Warsaw's stock exchange to a stop?
When was Warsaw's stock exchange brought back to life?
How many companies were listed on the WSE on August 2009?
Whose former headquarters was the WSE located in until 2000?
When was the FSO Car Factory founded?
What car is licensed by the FSO Car Factory and built in Egypt?
What South Korean car manufacturer purchased the factor in 1995?
Who bought the factory in 2005?
What did the license to build this type of car expire in 2011?
What is Warsaw known as in Polish?
What is the largest city in Poland?
What river runs through Warsaw?
How many people live in the greater metropolitan area?
Where does Warsaw rank in terms of population in the EU?
What is the largest city of Poland?
On what river does Warsaw stand?
How far is Warsaw from the Baltic Sea?
How many residents does the greater metropolitan area have?
What rank for most populous city in the European Union does Warsaw hold?
In what country is Normandy located?
When were the Normans in Normandy?
From which countries did the Norse originate?
Who was the Norse leader?
What century did the Normans first gain their separate identity?
Who was the duke in the battle of Hastings?
Who ruled the duchy of Normandy
What religion were the Normans
What is the original meaning of the word Norman?
When was the Latin version of the word Norman first recorded?
When was the Duchy of Normandy founded?
Who did Rollo sign the treaty of Saint-Clair-sur-Epte with?
What river originally bounded the Duchy
Who upon arriving gave the original viking settlers a common identity?
What was the Norman religion?
What part of France were the Normans located?
What was one of the Norman's major exports?
When did the attack occur in which the Normans impressed Prince Guaimar III occur?
Whose shrine did the pilgrims go to in 1016?
Where was the Archangel Michael shrine located?
What was the name of the leader ennobled by Henry III
Who was Count of Melfi
Who controlled Sicily before the Normans?
In what year was Roger II made king?
Where was William Iron Arm's castle located?
What is another name for the Tabula Rogeriana?
What does Kitab Rudjdjar mean in English?
What kind of bureaucracy did the Normans institute?
Who was the Normans' main enemy in Italy, the Byzantine Empire and Armenia?
When did Herve serve as a Byzantine general?
When did Robert Crispin go up against the Turks?
Who ruined Roussel de Bailleul's plans for an independent state?
What was the name of the Norman castle?
Who was the leader when the Franks entered the Euphrates valley?
Who did the Normans team up with in Anatolia?
What were the origins of the Raouliii family?
What was the name of the count of Apulia
When did Dyrrachium fall to the Normans?
How many men were in Robert's army?
Where did the Normans and Byzantines sign the peace treaty?
Who was Robert's son?
What river was Petrela located by?
When did the Normans attack Dyrrachium?
What was the naval base called?
Where was Dyrrachium located?
Who did Emma Marry?
Who was Emma's brother?
To where did Ethelred flee?
Who kicked Ethelred out?
Who was Edward the Confessor's half-brother?
When did Edward return?
Who did Edward make archbishop of Canterbury?
Where did Harold II die?
Who killed Harold II?
When was the Battle of Hastings?
Who was the ruling class ahead of the Normans?
What was the Anglo-Norman language's final form?
In what year did the Norman's invade at Bannow Bay?
What country did the Normans invade in 1169?
What culture did the Normans combine with in Ireland?
Who was Margaret's brother?
Who was Margaret's husband?
When was Scotland invaded by William?
Who was the hostage?
Who did Alexander I marry?
What culture's arrival in Scotland is know as the "Davidian Revolution"?
Where was Ralph earl of?
Who was Ralph in charge of being at war with?
Who made Ralph earl?
What country was under the control of Norman barons?
What year did Roger de Tosny fail to accomplish what he set out to do?
Who was in charge of the papal army in the War of Barbastro?
When did the Siege of Antioch take place?
What was the name of Bohemond's nephew?
What major conquest did Tancred play a roll in?
How long did Western Europe control Cyprus?
What ruined Richard's plans to reach Acre?
Who was Richard's fiancee?
What year did the storm hit Richard's fleet?
Who ruled Cyprus in 1191?
Who was Guy's Rival?
What were Isaac's chains made out of?
Who led Richard's troops when Cyprus was conquered?
Who did Berengaria of Navarre marry?
What was the wedding date?
What kind of coronation happened?
When did the Venetians take total control of Cyprus?
What group bought Cyprus after the Norman conquest?
What continent are the Canarian Islands off the coast of?
Who became the King of the Canary Islands?
Who bought the rights?
Who sold the rights?
Where are Jersey and Guernsey
How many customaries does Norman customary law have?
What is the Norman architecture idiom?
What kind of arches does Norman architecture have?
What architecture type came after Norman in England?
What architecture type came before Norman in England?
What place had the Norman Arab architectural style?
When did the church reform begin?
Who used the church to unify themselves?
When were the French wars of religion?
What kind of needlework was used in the creation of the Bayeux Tapestry?
What is Norman art's most well known piece?
Who commissioned the Tapestry?
What is the most important type of Norman art preserved in churches?
In what century did important classical music developments occur in Normandy?
Who were the two abbots at Fécamp Abbey?
Where did the monks flee to?
What monastery did the Saint-Evroul monks establish in Italy?
Who patronized the monks in Italy?
What tradition were the Saint-Evroul monks known for?
In what year was Nikola Tesla born?
What was Nikola Tesla's ethnicity?
In what year did Tesla die?
When was Nikola Tesla born?
In what year did Tesla die?
What is Tesla's home country?
What does AC stand for?
In what year did Nikola Tesla emigrate to the United States?
Who did Tesla work for in the 1880s?
Tesla's induction motor and transformer was licensed by whom?
In what area of the United States did Tesla move to?
What "war" was Tesla involved in?
When did Tesla come to the US?
What other inventor did he work with?
Where did Tesla work with Edison?
Who licensed Tesla's induction motor?
What other invention of Tesla's did Westinghouse license?
When did Tesla discover the possibility of wireless connectivity?
Were Tesla's experiments high-voltage or low-voltage?
What were some of Tesla's experiments?
Other than New York where did Tesla conduct experiments?
When did he first mention wireless communication?
What remote control vehicle did he make?
Where was his unfinished project called?
What year did Tesla die?
What was named "The Tesla" in his honor?
Where did Tesla live for much of his life?
What was Tesla's reputation in popular culture?
How did Tesla finance his work?
What year did Tesla die?
What did the General Conference on Weights and Measures name after Tesla in 1960?
When did people once again start to show an interest in Tesla?
Other than his scientific achievements what was Tesla famous for?
What modern-day country was Tesla born in?
What was the occupation of Tesla's father?
What was special about Tesla's memory?
Who did Tesla credit for his abilities?
What was Tesla's fathers occupation?
What was Tesla's father's name?
What was Tesla's mother's name?
What were Tesla's mother's special abilities?
Where did Tesla believe his talents came from?
How many siblings did Tesla have?
What language did Tesla study while in school?
In what year did Tesla's family move to Gospic?
What was Tesla's brother's name?
What were Tesla's sisters' names?
What happened to Dane?
Where did the family move in 1862?
What job did Tesla's father have in Gospic?
Who was Tesla influenced by while in school?
What language were classes held in at Tesla's school?
What could Tesla perform in his head?
What did Tesla's teachers believe he was doing while in school?
In what year did Tesla graduate from the Higher Real Gymnasium?
When did Tesla go to Karlovac?
Why did Tesla go to Karlovac?
Who was Tesla's main influence in Karlovac?
In what language were the classes given?
When did Tesla graduate?
What disease did Tesla contract in 1873?
How long was he bedridden with cholera?
What did Tesla's father promise him while he were bedridden?
What did Tesla's father originally want him to do?
Where did Tesla return to in 1873?
What was the year when Tesla went back to Smiljan?
What disease did Tesla catch?
How long was he in bed from cholera?
What was Tesla's father's original plans for Tesla?
What bargain did his father make with him if Tesla recovered?
Where did Tesla run to avoid the army draft?
Whose works helped Tesla recover from illness?
What did Tesla explore in Tominaj?
What year did Tesla avade the draft?
What did Tesla dress in while in Tominaj?
Why did Tesla avoid by fleeing Smiljan?
When did Tesla go to Tomingaj?
What did Tesla do in Tomingaj?
What author did Tesla credit for his recovery?
What year did Tesla enroll at an engineering school?
What school did he enroll in during 1875?
In what year did Tesla's father die?
What did Tesla struggle with while in school?
Did Tesla graduate from the university?
Where was Austrian Polytechnic located?
When did Tesla enroll in Austrian Polytechnic?
When did Tesla's father die?
How did Tesla lose his tuition money?
What was Tesla's father afraid would happen to him in school?
What did Tesla do in December 1878?
Why did Tesla sever ties with his family?
What did Tesla work as after dropping out?
Before he died, what did Tesla's father ask him to do?
What health issue did Tesla suffer?
When did Tesla depart Graz?
What secret did he sever family ties to keep hidden?
What was Tesla's friends' theory as to what became of him?
What did Tesla do in Maribor for work?
What health problem did Tesla have in 1879?
Why was Tesla returned to Gospic?
When was Tesla returned to Gospic?
Milutin Tesla died at what age?
What do some sources say Nikola's brother died from?
what did tesla do at his old school in 1879?
Why did the police bring Tesla back to Gospic?
When was Tesla brought to Gospic?
Where did Tesla teach in Gospic?
What was one of theories as to what caused Tesla's father's unspecified illness?
What city did Tesla move to in 1880?
Why was he unable to enroll at the university?
How did Tesla attend the university?
Which university did Tesla audit in 1880?
Where did Tesla go upon leaving Gospic?
When did Tesla go to Prague?
Where was Tesla hoping to attend classes in Prague?
Who gave Tesla money to go to Prague?
Where did Tesla move in 1881?
Which company did Tesla work for in 1881?
What position did Tesla accept at the exchange?
What did Tesla claim to perfect while at the exchange?
What position did Tesla hold in the Central Telegraph Office?
In what year did Tesla go to Budapest?
Where did Tesla work in Budapest?
What was the name of the telegraph company Tesla returned to after it became functional?
What was Tesla's position at the Budapest Telephone Exchange?
When did Tesla begin working for the Continental Edison Company?
Where was the Continental Edison Company located?
In June 1884, where did Tesla relocate?
Who hired Tesla when he moved to New York?
Where did Tesla begin working in 1884?
Where did Tesla begin a new job at in 1882?
Where was the Continental Edison Company located?
When did Tesla move to New York City?
Who hired Tesla in New York?
Where was Edison Machine Works located?
How much did Edison offer Tesla to redesign a motor and generators?
What did Edison offer Tesla after completing the project?
how long did Tesla spend redesigning the motor and generators?
How much did Tesla say Edison offered him to redesign his motor and generators?
What was Edison's reply as to what Tesla didn't understand when Tesla asked for payment?
What alternate payment did Edison offer Tesla?
Who did Tesla partner with in 1886?
What did lane and vail finance?
What did Tesla Electric Light & Manufacturing do?
What did Tesla first receive after starting his company?
What was produced at tesla's company?
What were the names of Tesla's new partners?
When did the partnership between Tesla, Lane and Vail form?
What was the name of the company the businessmen financed?
What did Tesla Electric Light & Manufacturing do?
Who designed the illumination systems that Tesla Electric Light & Manufacturing installed?
What did Tesla's investors do to him?
what was Tesla's financial situation after being forced out?
what did he do for $2 a day?
which years did tesla refer to as a time of terrible headaches and bitter tears?
What did Tesla do with his patents causing him to lose them?
What did Tesla do for a job that paid two dollars a day?
What else did Tesla do for work at this time?
Who was Alfred S brown?
When was Tesla Electric Company formed?
Where would profits go in this new company?
Where was a lab for Tesla set up?
When did Tesla first encounter Alfred S. Brown
What was Brown's job?
Who else did Tesla make the acquaintance of in 1886?
Where was Tesla's new lab?
What was Tesla, Brown and Peck's new company?
What did Tesla develop in 1887?
When was Tesla's innovative motor patented?
What did Tesla's design not need?
What did his design avoid in not having a commutator?
what sort of design was this motor?
When did Tesla make the induction motor?
Why was AC electricity gaining popularity?
What high maintenance part did Tesla's AC motor not require?
When did Tesla patent the motor?
Who was Thomas Commerford Martin?
What is the IEEE?
In what year did Tesla demonstrate his alternating current system?
Why did Westinghouse not secure a patent for a similar motor?
Who arranged for Tesla to demonstrate his system at the IEEE?
Who edited Electrical World magazine?
Who wanted to acquire patents an AC motor.
Who other than Tesla did Westinghouse consider for the patents?
What was Galileo Ferraris?
What was the name of Westinghouse's company?
In what year were Tesla's motor and transformer designs licensed to Westinghouse?
How much did Westinghouse pay to license Tesla's designs?
Who hired Tesla in 1888?
What was Tesla's position with Westinghouse?
How much did Westinghouse pay for Tesla's designs?
When did the deal between Peck, Brown and Westinghouse take place?
What was Tesla's monthly consultant salary?
In which city was Tesla's consultant job for Westinghouse?
Where did Tesla work in 1888?
What did Tesla work on in 1888?
What cycle AC current system did Tesla propose?
What motor did they end up using instead of the one Tesla wanted?
What was Tesla's AC system used for in Pittsburgh?
What ended up being used for the streetcars in the place of Tesla's system?
Who was the War of Currents waged between?
What did the war first start out as being between?
What did Edison Machine Works persue in 1890?
What company took over Edison Machine Works?
Which current type was Tesla in favor of?
Who was Westinghouse's chief rival?
When did the rivalry between Westinghouse and Edison reach its peak?
What caused the delay during the development of the AC motor.
Who took control of Edison's company.
In 1893, who won the bid to light the World's Columbian Exposition?
Where was the 1893 World's Columbian Exposition held?
Who did George Westinghouse beat out to light the World's Columbian Exposition?
What did Tesla call his electrical effects in 1893?
What was it called when Tesla lit a wireless gas-discharge lamp using a high-frequency, high-voltage alternating current?
Who outbid General Electric to provide light to the World's Columbian Exposition?
Where did the Exposition take place?
In what year was the World's Columbian Exposition?
What type of power was displayed at the World's fair by Westinghouse and Tesla?
Who headed the Niagara Falls Cataract Construction Company in 1893?
What landmark was Tesla asked about in regards to electricity in 1893?
What company was chosen to build a two-phase AC generating system at Niagara Falls?
What company was chosen to build an AC distribution system at Niagara Falls?
What system did Tesla recommend to Niagara Falls in 1893?
Who was the head of the company?
When did Richard Dean Adams make his inquiry?
What type of system did Tesla suggest to Adams?
What was the advantage of the two-phased system
When was a patent-sharing agreement signed between Westinghouse Electric and General Electric?
How much did Tesla sell his AC patents to Westinghouse Electric for?
What was the overly generous royalty amount that Tesla had been receiving?
By 1897, how much had Tesla, Brown, and Peck received in royalties and licenses over the patents?
Who financed General Electric's attempts to takeover Westinghouse?
How much had Westinghouse paid to Tesla, Brown and Peck?
How much did Westinghouse pay for Tesla's patents in order to escape its financial problems?
How old was tesla when he became a US citizen?
Where was Tesla's laboratory established?
What did he light at his laboratories to demonstrate his wireless power transmission?
what did he patent in 1891?
When did Tesla get his US citizenship?
What did Tesla patent in 1891?
How old was Tesla when he became a citizen of the US?
What sort of power transmission did Tesla show off at his labs?
What organization did Tesla serve as vice president of?
What was the forerunner of the modern-day IEEE?
When did Tesla stop serving as the vice president of American Institute of Electrical Engineers?
What position did Tesla hold in the American Institute of Electrical Engineers?
How long did Tesla hold this position?
Along with the American Institute of Electrical Engineers what other institute eventually became the IEEE?
Why did Tesla begin investigating invisible energy?
What took place in his lab in 1895, causing him to lose thousands of dollars of data and tools?
When were x-rays discovered?
When Tesla attempted to photograph Mark Twain, what was the only thing that showed up on the image?
When die Tesla turn his attention to trying to understand invisible radiant energy?
What is this invisible radiant energy now known as?
What happened to most of Tesla's work from this time?
What type of image was Tesla thought to have accidentally taken a week prior to the announcement of its discovery?
Who was Tesla trying to photograph when he accidentally took the X-Ray image?
What did Tesla begin to research in March 1896?
when did tesla begin researching x-ray imaging?
What is another term for x-ray imaging?
What did Tesla design several experimental setups to produce?
What did Tesla's device work from the output of?
When did Tesla start deliberately experimenting with X-ray imaging?
What powered Tesla's high energy terminal vacuum tube?
What were X-rays known as at the time?
What did tesla incorrectly believe about x-rays?
what did tesla attribute skin damage to?
what did Tesla think nitrous acid contributed to?
what did tesla note the hazards of working with?
where do plasma waves occur?
At first what did Tesla think was the main cause of damage to skin cells when they were exposed to X-rays?
What did Tesla mistakenly believe X-rays were?
Where are longitudinal waves found?
Where can Tesla's theories as to what caused the skin damage be found?
Which engineer made the induction motor more efficient?
In which year did Benjamin Lamme achieve success making the motor more efficient?
Who called their system the "Tesla Polyphase System"?
What was Tesla's device called?
Who demonstrated the Egg of Columbus?
When did the Herald Tribune publish its Tesla article?
What did the particle do to Tesla?
How did Tesla know he was being struck by the particle?
What other projectiles did Tesla compare the electric particles to?
What association did Tesla demonstrate his radio wave theories to?
Which of Tesla's inventions was used in radio development?
What Philadelphia institution did Tesla give a demonstration to?
When did Tesla give a demonstration of his remote control boat?
What was the boat called?
Where was the boat demonstration given?
What was the occasion for the boat demonstration?
What type of animal did onlookers claim was piloting the boat?
When did Tesla attain his electrical transmitter patent?
Who first sent radio waves across the Atlantic?
When was Marconi's radio demonstration?
When were Tesla's patents restored?
A decision made by what entity restored Tesla's patents?
In what year did Tesla go to Colorado Springs?
Where did he claim he would transport energy to?
What date did Tesla begin his Colorado Springs experiments?
What was the recorded length of the first spark?
What kind of electricity was Tesla investigating?
What sort of waves did he claim to observe?
What was Tesla's idea regarding Earth?
What natural phenomenon did Tesla create artificially?
How big were his artificial bolts?
From what distance could the artificial thunder be heard.
What happened to nearby light bulbs?
What was notable about the butterflies?
What did Tesla accidentally cause?
What happened to the dynamos in the power station?
What caused the dynamos to be burnt out?
What did the sparks do to the insulation?
To what did Tesla attribute the unknown signals his radio received?
What planet did the reporters decide the signals were from?
What magazine did Tesla talk to about the strange signals?
What is another possible explanation for the source of the signals?
When did Marconi transmit similar signals to those Tesla received?
How much money did John Jacob Astor IV provide Tesla with?
What did Astor expect the money be used for?
What did Tesla spend Astor's money on?
When did Astor provide the money?
When did Tesla depart from Colorado Springs?
What happened to his lab?
When was his lab destroyed?
What happened to the things inside the lab after it was torn down?
What did Tesla establish following his Colorado experiments?
What kind of facility was Wardenclyffe?
Where was Wardenclyffe located?
Who did Tesla try to get money from?
On what did Tesla blame for the loss of the initial money?
How did Morgan react to the request?
How much correspondence did Tesla send Morgan in the five years following 1901?
Why did Tesla want funds from Morgan?
What happened in 1901?
How tall was the tower's ultimate height?
How many horsepower did Tesla's bladeless turbine have?
At what speed did the turbine operate?
When did Tesla first show off the turbine?
What was the horsepower put out by the turbines in Waterside Power Station
How was Tesla's mechanical oscillator powered?
Where did he work on the oscillators?
What unforeseen problem caused Tesla to hit his experiment with a sledgehammer?
What publication published an article about Tesla in 1912?
What did Tesla claim his resonant frequencies could do in the World Today article?
What did Tesla think could improve the brain's intelligence?
What was Tesla's plan to make students "bright"?
Who approved of this plan?
What was Maxwell's job?
Where did Tesla look for investors prior to WWI?
What happened to Tesla's funding once the war begun?
What did he do with Wardenclyffe?
How much did Tesla receive from the sale of Wardenclyffe?
What award was given to Tesla?
In what magazine did Tesla talk about reflecting electricity off of submarine's hulls?
How would the operator of observe the reflected signal?
What later invention was Tesla's idea similar to?
Who played a part in the development of radar in France?
Who did Reuters claim won the 1915 Nobel prize in Physics?
Who actually won the prize?
What was the rumored reason Edison and Tesla were not awarded the prize?
According to the Nobel Foundation what has to happen before someone can decline a prize?
What was another possible reason that Tesla and Edison did not get the award?.
How many possible bids for the prize were there in 1915?
Who received a bid in 1915?
In what year did Tesla receive a Nobel Prize bid?
What was the patent number for Tesla's final patent?
For what invention was U.S. Patent 1,655,114 granted?
What was Tesla's belief as to the selling price of the biplane?
What kind of engines did the biplane design have?
What was Tesla's salary from Westinghouse in 1934?
What other compensation did Tesla get from Westinghouse?
For how long did Tesla receive this compensation?
What was Westinghouse potentially trying to avoid by paying Tesla?
What did Tesla claim to be able to transmit?
How far did he claim the mechanical energy could be transmitted?
How much energy loss did he expect would occur?
What did he hope to locate underground?
When did Tesla make these claims?
What was Tesla on his way to do when he was struck by the cab?
Who did Tesla refuse to see following the accident?
What happened to his ribs in the accident?
When did he first get out of bed following the accident?
When did the accident occur?
What kind of weapon did Tesla talk about?
What was he studying that gave him the teleforce weapon idea?
What ground based group did Tesla think the weapon could be used on?
What was another use for the weapon?
Other than a peace-ray, what did reporters call the weapon?
When did Tesla claim to have built the weapon?
What was the occasion when he claimed he'd made the death ray?
Of what material were the death rays pellets made?
What was used to accelerate the tungsten pellets?
How much time did he claim had to pass before he gave the ray to the world?
What kind of weapons did Tesla's treatise concern?
Where can the Treatise be found?
In what city is the Nikola Tesla Museum?
How many volts could particles be charged to in his weapon design?
What did he claim the weapon would end?
What was Tesla afraid someone was trying to do with his invention?
Where did he claim the blueprint was stored?
According to Tesla what had been gone over by the thieves, or spies who entered his room?
How old was Tesla when he died?
What was the date of Tesla's death?
Who first discovered his body?
What had been left hanging on the door to Tesla's room?
What was given as the cause of death?
What happened to Tesla's belongings?
Who analyzed Tesla's belongings?
What did he find that could constitute a hazard?
To where were the belongings taken?
Who gave Tesla's eulogy?
Who wrote the eulogy?
What day was Tesla's funeral?
How many people attended the funeral?
Where was the funeral held?
Where was Tesla's property sent?
Who was Tesla's nephew?
Who transported Tesla's ashes from the US.
Where were the ashes sent?
When are the ashes now?
What was the total number of patents that Tesla had?
In how many countries did Tesla hold patents?
Other than the US and Britain what was the other main country that Tesla had patents granted?
Where were missing patents later found?
At what time did Tesla get dinner?
Before dinner what were Tesla's working hours?
On some nights how late did Tesla work until?
Who served his dinner?
What was the daily distance walked by Tesla?
Why did he walk?
What did he do to his feet at night?
What was he hoping to stimulate with the toe squishing?
What did Tesla tell Brisbane he didn't believe in?
What was Brisbane's job?
Down to how many laws did Tesla believe the fundamental laws could be reduced?
What animals did Tesla care for?
How much did Tesla spend on the injured pigeon?
What was wrong with the pigeon?
Where did Tesla go to feed the pigeons daily?
To what place did he bring the injured pigeons to take care of them?
How much did Tesla weigh?
How tall was Tesla?
In what time frame did Tesla weigh almost exactly the same amount?
Where did he live while he was looking good?
How many languages did Tesla know?
What did Tesla see during his strange illnesses when he was young?
What is another term for Tesla's visualization ability?
What other visual phenomena accompanied Tesla's visions?
What kind of memory was Tesla thought to have?
How long would Tesla spend gambling sometimes?
What amount of time was the longest that Tesla spent working without stopping to rest?
Where was Tesla studying when he started playing cards and billiards?
Who did Tesla call in the middle of the night?
What was Kenneth Swezey's job?
What characteristic did Tesla say helped his scientific abilities?
Who reportedly wanted Tesla's company?
When did Tesla admit to a reporter that maybe he'd sacrificed too much by not having a relationship?
Who was Tesla's secretary?
Who said Tesla had a "distinguished sweetness"?
What was Tesla likely to do with his work?
With what word was Tesla's sociability described?
What was Julian Hawthorne's relation to Tesla?
What famous writer was Tesla's good friend?
Where did Tesla and Twain hang out?
When did Tesla become friends with Viereck?
Who was Tesla prejudiced against?
Who did he fire?
Why did he fire the secretary?
What did he make the employee do when he didn't like her outfit?
What subatomic particle did Tesla deny the existence of?
What did he think was everywhere in the universe?
What did he believe the ether did?
To what century did the idea of ether belong?
Whose theory did Tesla disagree with?
What was Tesla's attitude toward the idea that matter could be turned into energy?
Which theory of Einstein's did Tesla speak critically toward?
What "dynamic theory" did Tesla say he finished in 1937?
When did Tesla start working on the problem of energy and matter?
What shape of space did Tesla consider a "false conception"?
How old was Tesla when he wrote that he'd completed his dynamic theory of gravity?
What idea was Tesla a fan of?
What was his belief as to what nature was supposed to be?
What attribute of humans interfered with nature's ruthlessness in Tesla's opinion?
When did he talk about his beliefs in an interview?
Who did Tesla think would run the world of the future?
When did he talk about his thoughts on gender?
What term did he use for what he believed would be humanity's future rulers?
The issues of what era did Tesla's article talk about?
What were the "great Forces" mentioned in the article's title?
When was the article published?
What entity did Tesla believe would not be able to solve the problems of the time?
What religion did Tesla grow up in?
What type of religious behavior was Tesla against?
Which two religions did Tesla express respect for?
What article was published in 1937?
Because of certain statements what was the believed state of his religious views?
In the article's title, what did the machine hope to end?
What did Tesla write?
Who published Tesla's writings?
Who edited Tesla's autobiography?
Where can a lot Tesla's writings be found?
When was his article published in Century Magazine?
What was one of Tesla's books where articles can be read?
What kind of fiction is Tesla's work featured in?
What kind of media can references to Tesla be found in
How many types of science fiction have been impacted by Tesla?
On which magazine's cover did Tesla appear in 1931
For what occasion was he put on the cover?
To which technology type that Tesla worked on did the caption refer to?
What famous person congratulated him?
How many other important people sent letters?
What branch of theoretical computer science deals with broadly classifying computational problems by difficulty and class of relationship?
By what main attribute are computational problems classified utilizing computational complexity theory?
What is the term for a task that generally lends itself to being solved by a computer?
What measure of a computational problem broadly defines the inherent difficulty of the solution?
What method is used to intuitively assess or quantify the amount of resources required to solve a computational problem?
What are two basic primary resources used to guage complexity?
What unit is measured to determine circuit complexity?
What practical role does defining the complexity of problems play in everyday computing?
What two fields of theoretical computer science closely mirror computational complexity theory?
What field of computer science analyzes the resource requirements of a specific algorithm isolated unto itself within a given problem?
What field of computer science analyzes all possible algorithms in aggregate to determine the resource requirements needed to solve to a given problem?
What field of computer science is primarily concerned with determining the likelihood of whether or not a problem can ultimately be solved using algorithms?
What is the name given to the input string of a computational problem?
In computational complexity theory, what is the term given to describe the baseline abstract question needing to be solved?
Is a problem instance typically characterized as abstract or concrete?
What is another name for any given measure of input associated with a problem?
What is the general term used to describe the output to any given input in a problem instance?
By how many kilometers does the traveling salesman problem seek to classify a route between the 15 largest cities in Germany?
What is one example of an instance that the quantitative answer to the traveling salesman problem fails to answer?
What does computational complexity theory most specifically seek to answer?
In a computational problem, what can be described as a string over an alphabet?
What is the name of the alphabet is most commonly used in a problem instance?
What is another term for the string of a problem instance?
In the encoding of mathematical objects, what is the way in which integers are commonly expressed?
What is one way in which graphs can be encoded?
What kind of problems are one of the main topics studied in computational complexity theory?
What are the two simple word responses to a decision problem?
What are the two integer responses to a decision problem?
What will the output be for a member of the language of a decision problem?
What answer denotes that an algorithm has accepted an input string?
What kind of graph is an example of an input used in a decision problem?
What is the term for the set of all connected graphs related to this decision problem?
What encoding decision needs to be made in order to determine an exact definition of the formal language?
A function problem is an example of what?
How many outputs are expected for each input in a function problem?
The traveling salesman problem is an example of what type of problem?
In addition to the traveling salesman problem, what is another example of a function problem?
Is the output of a functional problem typically characterized by a simple or complex answer?
How can function problems typically be restated?
If two integers are multiplied and output a value, what is this expression set called?
What is a commonly used measurement used to determine the complexity of a computational problem?
What is one variable on which the running time may be contingent?
How is the time needed to obtain the solution to a problem calculated?
In what unit is the size of the input measured?
Complexity theory seeks to define the relationship between the scale of algorithms with respect to what other variable?
Whose thesis states that the solution to a problem is solvable with reasonable resources assuming it allows for a polynomial time algorithm?
If input size is is equal to n, what can respectively be assumed is the function of n?
What term corresponds to the maximum measurement of time across all functions of n?
How is worst-case time complexity written as an expression?
Assuming that T represents a polynomial in T(n), what is the term given to the corresponding algorithm?
What is the term for a mathematical model that theoretically represents a general computing machine?
It is generally assumed that a Turing machine can solve anything capable of also being solved using what?
What is the most commonplace model utilized in complexity theory?
What does a Turing machine handle on a strip of tape?
What is generally considered to be the most basic iteration of a Turing machine?
What fixed set of factors determine the actions of a deterministic Turing machine
What is the term used to identify a deterministic Turing machine that has additional random bits?
What type of Turing machine is capable of multiple actions and extends into a variety of computational paths?
What is the term given to algorithms that utilize random bits?
Turing machines are commonly employed to define what?
What are two factors that directly effect how powerful a Turing machine may or may not be?
In the determination of complexity classes, what are two examples of types of Turing machines?
What is an example of a machine model that deviates from a generally accepted multi-tape Turing machine?
In considering Turing machines and alternate variables, what measurement left unaffected by conversion between machine models?
What two resources commonly consumed by alternate models are typically known to vary?
What commonality do alternate machine models, such as random access machines, share with Turing machines?
What type of Turing machine can be characterized by checking multiple possibilities at the same time?
What often affects or facilitates ease of analysis in computational problems?
A non-deterministic Turing machine has the ability to capture what facet of useful analysis?
What is the most critical resource in the analysis of computational problems associated with non-deterministic Turing machines?
The time required to output an answer on a deterministic Turing machine is expressed as what?
Complexity theory classifies problems based on what primary attribute?
What is the expression used to identify any given series of problems capable of being solved within time on a deterministic Turing machine?
What is the most critical resource measured to in assessing the determination of a Turing machine's ability to solve any given set of problems?
Time and space are both examples of what type of resource?
A complexity resource can also be described as what other type of resource?
What is typically used to broadly define complexity measures?
Communication complexity is an example of what type of measure?
Decision tree is an example of what type of measure?
What are the three primary expressions used to represent case complexity?
Case complexity likelihoods provide variable probabilities of what general measure?
What is one common example of a critical complexity measure?
Case complexities provide three likelihoods of what differing variable that remains the same size?
What provides a solution to a list of integers provided as input that ned to be sorted?
When extensive time is required to sort integers, this represents what case complexity?
What is the expression used to denote a worst case complexity as expressed by time taken?
Classification of resources is contingent on determining the upper and lower bounds of minimum time required by what?
The analysis of a specific algorithm is typically assigned to what field of computational science?
Which bound of time is more difficult to establish?
A specific algorithm demonstrating T(n) represents what measure of time complexity?
What is the colloquial phrase used to convey the continuum of algorithms with unlimited availability irrespective of time?
What expression is generally used to convey upper or lower bounds?
What does a big O notation hide?
How would one write T(n) = 7n2 + 15n + 40 in big O notation?
Big O notation provides autonomy to upper and lower bounds with relationship to what?
What has complicated definitions that prevent classification into a framework?
Complexity classes are generally classified into what?
Difficulty in establishing a framework for complexity classes can be caused by what variable?
Concrete bounding of computation time frequently produces complexity classes contingent upon what?
A multi-tape Turing machine requires what type of time for a solution?
A language solved in quadratic time implies the use of what type of Turing machine?
What thesis specifies that a polynomial relationship exists within time complexities in a computational model?
Decision problems capable of being solved by a deterministic Turing machine while maintaining adherence to polynomial time belong to what class?
What are two examples of measurements are bound within algorithms to establish complexity classes?
What function is used by algorithms to define measurements like time or space?
Bounding of time and space or similar measurements is often used by algorithms to define what?
What are three examples of complexity classes associated with definitions established by probabilistic Turing machines?
AC and NC are complexity classes typically associated with what type of circuit?
BQP and QMA are examples of complexity classes most commonly associated with what type of Turing machine?
What is the expression used to represent a complexity class of counting problems?
IP and AM are most commonly defined by what type of proof system?
What is an example of a measurement within a complexity class that would create a bigger set of problems if the bounds were relaxed?
In what expression can one expect to find DTIME(n)
What theorems are responsible for determining questions of time and space requirements?
Resources are constrained by hierarchy theorems to produce what?
What kind of statement is made in the effort of establishing the time and space requirements needed to enhance the ultimate number of problems solved?
What is the foundation for separation results within complexity classes?
What is responsible for constraining P according to the time hierarchy theorem?
Within what variable is L constrained according to the space hierarchy theorem?
What concept is frequently used to define complexity classes?
Reduction essentially takes one problem and converts into what?
According to reduction, if X and Y can be solved by the same algorithm then X performs what function in relationship to Y?
What are two examples of different types of reduction?
Polynomial time reductions are an example of what?
What is the most frequently employed type of reduction?
What equates to a squared integer according to polynomial time reduction?
What measurement of time is used in polynomial time reduction?
What would need to remain constant in a multiplication algorithm to produce the same outcome whether multiplying or squaring two integers?
According to polynomial time reduction squaring can ultimately be logically reduced to what?
The complexity of problems often depends on what?
What would create a conflict between a problem X and problem C within the context of reduction?
An algorithm for X which reduces to C would us to do what?
A problem set that that is hard for the expression NP can also be stated how?
The hardest problems in NP can be analogously written as what class of problems?
NP complete problems contain the lowest likelihood of being located in what problem class?
If P = NP is unsolved, and reduction is applied to a known NP-complete problem vis a vis 2 to 1, what conclusion can be drawn for 1?
If polynomial time can be utilized within an NP-complete problem, what does the imply P is equal to?
What complexity class is characterized by a computational tasks and efficient algorithms?
What hypothesis is associated with the complexity class of P viewed as a mathematical abstraction with efficient algorithmic functionality?
What complexity class is commonly characterized by unknown algorithms to enhance solvability?
What is an example of a problem that rests within the NP complexity class?
In what theoretical machine is it confirmed that a problem in P belies membership in the NP class?
If P is ultimately proven to be equal tot NP, what effect would this have on the efficiency of problems?
What is a particular problem in biology that would benefit from determining that P = NP?
What is the prize offered for finding a solution to P=NP?
Who demonstrated that P= NP implies problems not present in P or NP-complete?
What is the name for a problem that meets Ladner's assertion?
What is an example of an NP-intermediate problem not known to exist in P or NP-complete?
What is the problem attributed to defining if two finite graphs are isomorphic?
What class is most commonly not ascribed to the graph isomorphism problem in spite of definitive determination?
What finite hierarchy implies that the graph isomorphism problem is NP-complete?
To what level would the polynomial time hierarchy collapse if graph isomorphism is NP-complete?
Who are commonly associated with the algorithm typically considered the most effective with respect to finite polynomial hierarchy and graph isomorphism?
What computational problem is commonly associated with prime factorization?
The integer factorization problem essentially seeks to determine if the value of of an input is less than what variable?
That there currently exists no known integer factorization problem underpins what commonly used system?
What is the most well-known algorithm associated with the integer factorization problem?
What is the unproven assumption generally ascribed to the value of complexity classes?
What is an expression that can be used to illustrate the suspected inequality of complexity classes?
Where can the complexity classes RP, BPP, PP, BQP, MA, and PH be located?
What evidence between and among complexity classes would signify a theoretical watershed for complexity theory?
In what complexity class do complement problems of NP problems exist?
How do the yes/no answers of a complement problem of NP appear?
What is commonly believed to be the value relationship between P and co-NP
What implication can be derived for P and NP if P and co-NP are established to be unequal?
What variable is associated with all problems solved within logarithmic space?
Though unkown, what are the most commonly ascribed attributes of L in relation to P
What lies between L and P that prevents a definitive determination of the relationship between L and P?
What are two complexity classes between L and P?
What is unknown about the complexity classes between L and P that further prevents determining the value relationship between L and P?
Problems capable of theoretical solutions but consuming unreasonable time in practical application are known as what?
Intractable problems lacking polynomial time solutions necessarily negate the practical efficacy of what type of algorithm?
If NP is not equal to P, viewed through this lens, what type of problems can also be considered intractable?
What eponymous variation of arithmetic presents a decision problem not evidenced in P?
Despite the Presburger problem, and in view of intractability, what has been done to establish solutions in reasonable periods of time?
What is an example of a problem to which effective algorithms have provided a solution in spite of the intractability associated with the breadth of sizes?
How quickly can an algorithm solve an NP-complete knapsack problem?
What is the example of another problem characterized by large instances that is routinely solved by SAT handlers employing efficient algorithms?
What tactic did researchers employ to offset the former deficit of work surrounding the complexity of algorithmic problems?
Who was the most influential researcher among those grappling with the deficit of work surrounding the complexity posed by algorithmic problems?
What theoretical device is attributed to Alan Turing?
In what year was the Alan Turing's definitional model of a computing device received?
In the most basic sense what did a Turing machine emulate?
What paper is commonly considered the bellwether ushering in systematic studies computational complexity?
What individuals were responsible for authoring "On the Computational Complexity of Algorithms"?
In what year was Hatmanis and Stearn's seminal work in computational complexity received?
What complex measurements were defined by "On the Computational Complexity of Algorithms"?
In what year did Edmond's characterize a "good" algorithm?
Who provided a definition of linear bounded automata in 1960?
In what year did Raymond Sullivan publish a study of rudimentary sets?
In 1962, who was responsible for the authorship of a paper published on real time-computations?
What is the concrete choice typically assumed by most complexity-theoretic theorems?
In the effort of maintaining a level of abstraction, what choice is typically left independent?
Who is responsible for axiomatic complexity theory?
What theorem was implicated by Manuel Blum's axioms?
What is the paper written by Richard Karp in 1972 that ushered in a new era of understanding between intractability and NP-complete problems?
How many combinatory and graph theoretical problems, formerly believed to be plagued by intractability, did Karp's paper address?
What is a course of study called?
What is another name to describe the science of teaching?
Where do most teachers get their credentials from?
What can a teacher use to help students learn?
Where is a teacher most likely to be teaching at?
What factor may make a teacher's role vary?
What is similar to literacy that a teacher would teach?
What is similar to vocational training?
What type of teaching would help the most with everyday life?
Who is most likely to teach a child at home?
If someone is being taught at their place of residence, what is it called?
What type of education is home schooling?
What is the opposite of an ongoing role of teaching?
What would a community member need to teach informally?
What is another general name for a religious teacher?
What type of text is the Quran?
Name a text that might be used by a religious teacher to teach.
Who would generally teach from a work like the Quran, Torah or Bible?
What is another name for teaching within the family?
Who is most likely to be doing formal teaching?
What is another type of accountant other than a CPA?
In addition to teaching within the family, where else is informal teaching done?
Who is generally considered on the same level as physicians, lawyers, engineers, and accountants (Chartered or CPA)?
What could a teacher help in organizing?
What would type of activities would require a teacher to take on a supervisor role?
What would type of studying would require a teacher to take on a supervisor role?
Who might be responsible for student discipline?
What do government's run that affects teachers?
Why would a teacher's college exist?
Who would a teacher's college be protecting?
Who is taught at teacher's colleges?
Teacher's colleges certify, govern and enforce what for teachers?
Who could be the subjects of a teacher's college investigation?
What could someone be investigated for?
A teacher must be a member in good standing with what entity in many situations?
Who might take disciplinary action against a teacher?
Who might be charged with accrediting teacher education programs?
Where might a teacher teach that is not inside a building?
What is the name for a teacher of just one person?
Where is another indoor location for a teacher other than a school?
What is the role of teachers in education?
What is another way of learning that is not formal?
What is a name for the different ways to instruct students?
What is a typical name for learning that is not inside of the classroom?
What has started to change the way teachers teach in the classroom, generally?
What has risen to be a factor in teaching today?
What objective would be labeled as practical?
Who would decide on the curricula that is consistent and standard?
What type of disability would a teacher help a student with?
What is the youngest student a teacher might have?
What type of curricula is it that a teacher may likely follow?
What would a teacher assess the levels of a student on?
In what areas does most of the learning take place?
What would a teacher do for someone who is timid?
What would a teacher do for someone who is cocky?
What function is a teacher's role similar to?
What's the biggest difference in the teaching relationship for primary and secondary school?
What does a teacher teach in primary school?
Who teaches in secondary schools?
Which type of school has a closer teacher-child relationship?
What type of parenting role does a teacher take on?
What type of approaches for primary school are available that are different than the norm?
What type of system takes students from one specialist to another for each subject?
In a platoon style teaching, what gives the children security?
The teacher's in a platoon style teaching are usually more _____?
What country is this teaching subject discussing?
What is a new trend in teaching?
How many teachers are usually involved when co-teaching?
What does co-teaching get the students to focus on?
How do co-teachers work with each other to fulfill the needs of students?
What type of support does co-teaching provide?
What was the usual type of school discipline?
What was the teacher's role while the child was with them?
What types of discipline did the teacher have access to?
How common of a type was corporal punishment in schools?
When could a teacher act in the role of a parent?
How common was the form of corporal punishment in the past?
Where is corporal punishment no longer practiced?
What Western country is corporal punishment still allowed?
What U.S. entity said that corporal punishment was Constitutional?
What does corporal punishment cause a student?
How many US states do no practice corporal punishment?
Where is corporal punishment practiced the most?
Is corporal punishment increasing or declining in the South?
What tool is used in corporal punishment?
Where is corporal punishment usually performed these days?
What is a common practice in official corporal punishment?
What countries is corporal punishment still a normal practice?
Where can you find more information on a country's practices?
What is a common punishment in Singapore?
What is a common punishment in the UK and Ireland?
Where does the pupil remain while in detention
If a detention requires a pupil to just sit there, how are they required to sit?
If a detention asks the student to write, what do they write?
What type of teacher is required in the Western Europe model of discipline?
What is the balance for positive reinforcement?
What type of boundaries help to define the way kids behave?
What is not considered appropriate disclipine?
What are teachers expected to give their students?
Who wants a more confrontational type of discipline?
What countries are used as an example of harsher discipline with successful education?
What do critics think the cause of problems with modern schooling is?
What type of discipline do critics want to see?
What country has higher scores on standardized tests than the U.S.?
What country has such unmanageable students that many teachers do not discipline them?
What country has a problem with classroom discipline, even though scores on tests are high?
What country's schools have codes of behavior that are very strict?
What class sizes can make keeping order difficult?
If the teacher focuses on maintaining order, what does this take time away from?
Who may teachers focus on, in order to prioritize attention?
Who may teachers ignore, in order to prioritize attention?
Who ends up getting more of the teacher's resources in this scenario?
What type of authority do Sudbury schools prefer?
In addition to schools, where else is popularly based authority effective?
What is the atmosphere in a school using popularly based authority?
In schools using popularly based authority, what is public order like?
What must be passed using democratic means by the entire school community?
What must a teacher show towards the course materials for increase learning?
What gets transferred to students who are receptive to the teacher?
What do these teachers NOT do?
How do students rate teachers that they feel are enthusiastic?
What increases student's motivation to learn?
Students exposed to an enthusiastic teacher usually did what more often outside class?
What is dramatic gesturing an example of?
What type of studies explored student motivation?
Nonverbal expressions resulted in what kind of levels of motivation to learn?
Enthusiastic teachers may cause students to become more ____ about their learning process?
What may cause "motivational embellishment"?
What is the term for catching the motivation expressed by the teacher?
What might cause a higher student interest in learning the presented subject?
What is student motivation about school linked to?
What type of relationships do enthusiastic teachers cause?
What does a student's academic goals include?
What should a teacher guide a student in?
What is strongly linked to good student-teacher relationships?
Students show more interest in classes taught by what type of teachers?
Students build stronger relationships with what type of teachers?
What do supportive teachers spend more time doing?
Humor is a part of the classroom for what type of teacher?
What is the second aspect of teacher enthusiasm?
What does a teacher need to be with regards to their subject matter?
A teacher's spark may create a spark where?
What can an enthusiastic teacher be to a young student?
What is important for a teacher to enjoy?
What is the largest type of misconduct being reviewed by the media?
How many students have received unwanted sexual attention from a teacher or other education figure?
What country is this statistic for?
What is the time period of this statistic?
Who conducted this survey?
Where was it shown to have a 0.3% prevalence of sexual abuse by professionals?
What was the definition of professionals, for this study?
How many people were involved in the study?
What study covered subjects in 80,000 schools?
Where has there been very well-known cases of teacher misconduct?
What has been the result of this publicity?
Why have some men avoided becoming teachers?
Who is the general secretary for the National Association of Schoolmasters Union of Women Teachers?
A statement made by Chris Keates caused issues with whom?
What has the avoidance of men to become teachers caused, in some areas?
What register did Chris Keates think that some teachers should not be placed on?
What can hurt a teacher's mental and physical health?
What, when combined with a large workload, can contribute to occupational stress?
What is something that teacher's are at a high risk for?
What can be the result of a change in an organization?
What, on the part of a teacher, can result in a decrease in student performance
How many teachers were found to have felt occupational stress in a 2000 study?
Where was the 2000 study conducted?
How much higher was the 42% occupation stress figure, compared to other jobs?
Which study showed double the rate of anxiety?
The 2012 study showed teachers experienced more stress than whom?
How many ways are available to help reduce the stress of teaching?
What is providing support networks considered to be?
What is stress-management training considered to be?
What might offering bonuses help reduce?
What type of intervention would changing the work environment be?
Where are nearly all teachers taught?
What might the Government require a teacher have before being allowed to teach?
What certificate is often earned after graduating high school?
What might also be required of a teacher to pass, in addition to certification?
In what country is a background check required?
Who is responsible for education in the country of Australia?
How many tiers are in the Australian form of learning?
What follows secondary education?
What is tertiary education?
What is the first model of education, in the Australian system?
What is the minimum required if you want to teach in Canada?
What may also be required of teachers, in some areas?
Where does a private school get funding to operate?
What are teachers considered to be in Germany?
Where are teachers recruited from?
What is the name of Elementary Schools?
What is used to decide a teacher's salary?
What are upper-level secondary schools called?
What does teaching on an island result in?
What is the basic pay for a teacher, in Euros?
What can a teacher with 25 years of experience make, in Euros?
What can a principal make, if he/she works for a big school?
With whom are teachers required to register?
What part of the Teaching Council Act requires registration?
When was the Teaching Council Act passed?
What funds cannot be used if a teacher is not registered?
When was vetting introduced?
Who is subject to vetting?
How are existing teachers and non-teachers vetted?
Who cannot be employed by a school in any manner?
In 2007, what was the high end of the salary range?
What can cause salaries to go higher than the range?
What would a Preschool teacher make, salary-wise?
What type of degree must a teacher have, at a minimum?
When was the salary range listed valid for (month and year)?
What do counties sometimes offer to get more teachers?
What type of positions would these counties be trying to recruit for?
Would opportunities be the same in each subject, or would they vary?
What type of opportunities would be expected from these counties?
What types of teachers are retiring the most?
With whom must someone who wants to teach register?
What is considered an all graduate profession in Scotland?
How many universities offer an Initial Teacher Education (ITE) program?
What does someone who completes the Initial Teacher Education (ITE) program get?
How long until the Provisional Registration is upgraded, if requirements are met?
What is the start of the salary year?
How much does a Probationer earn, initially?
How much does a Probationer earn, after 6 years of service?
What would a Probationer need to do to earn more money, after 6 years?
What group can teachers register with?
What area differs from other areas in the United Kingdom regarding education?
What language is used to educate in Wales?
How long are students required to learn Welsh?
What percentage of primary schools used Welsh primarily or exclusively?
Who is Welsh medium education available to?
What group can teachers in Wales register with?
What is happening to the average age of teachers in Wales?
When were attacks on teachers the highest?
What is the NASUWT?
What are the attacks on teachers causing?
In the US, who decides on the requirements for teachers?
What is the longest time that a teaching certificate is good for?
What must a public school teacher have, at a minimum?
Who may not require that its teachers be certified?
What may a Charter school require that their teachers meet the standards to be highly qualified by?
In general, what were teachers paid in the past?
What has been getting much better in the most recent years?
What two factors can generally increase a teacher's salary?
In a report on K-12 teachers, which teachers had the lowest median salary?
What website are teachers using to sell their lesson plans?
How many types of religious or spiritual teachers are there in Christianity?
Which denomination has more of an individualistic streak?
Is the Pope's confessor a Bishop?
What are the three major traditions present in Christianity?
What is an abbreviation for the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints?
Who may be a spiritual teacher in the LDS Church?
What type of mentorship does the LDS Church focus on?
Who is expected to lead the family in spiritual mentorship?
Who do Priesthood representatives defer to, at times?
What is the name of the spiritual teacher in Hinduism?
Is the focus on spiritual mentorship in Hinduism high or low?
Who do gurus control?
In what area is it common for spiritual mentorship to be extremely high?
What is the name of a teacher in Tibetan Buddhism?
What has a Lama determined to do?
What is the name of a Bodhisattva vow?
How much has a Lama agreed to be reborn?
What helped the Lama determine to be reborn?
Who teaches the proper way of living in Islam?
Who can decide on legal matters in Islam?
What is the name of the mystical type of Islam?
What is another name for exoteric?
What is the term for the highest living saint?
Of what nationality was Martin Luther?
When did Martin Luther die?
What organization's teaching did Luther reject?
What did the Church claim could be avoided with money?
What did the Church do when Luther refused to retract his writings?
Since he didn't believe that salvation was acquired through good deeds, how was it achieved?
What did Martin Luther believe achieved God's Grace?
Whose authority did Luther's theology oppose?
What did Luther think was the only source of knowledge of God?
To Luther, what were all baptized Christians considered to be?
What book did Martin Luther translate to impact German culture?
What did Luther's translation of the Bible promote in the German language?
What version of the English translation of the Bible did Luther's translation affect?
What development did Luther's hymns translations influence?
What did Martin Luther's marriage allow?
When was Martin Luther born?
Where was Luther born?
Of what region was Saxony a part?
Into what religion was Martin Luther baptized?
What profession did Martin's father want his son to pursue?
Where did Martin Luther go to school?
How did Luther describe the University of Erfurt?
How early did Luther say he had to awaken every day?
How did Luther describe his learning at the university?
In what year did Luther get his degree?
What educational study did Luther start to pursue and immediately drop?
What did Luther think the study of law meant?
What fields of study did Martin Luther prefer?
How did Luther's tutors advise him to test what he learned?
What did Luther think reason could not be used to test?
What did Martin Luther fear after a lightening bolt struck near him?
When did the lightening event happen?
Where did Luther go on 17 July 1505?
On what did Luther's friend blame his sadness and entrance into the cloister?
What did Martin's father view his entering the cloister as a waste of?
To what did Martin Luther devote all his attention?
How did Luther describe his time in the order?
What did Luther feel he made of Christ?
Who directed Luther away from self-reflection and towards the merits of Christ?
What lesson did Johann von Staupitz teach Luther repentance was?
When was Martin Luther ordained as a priest?
Who asked Luther to teach theology at the University of Wittenberg?
When was Luther called by von Staupitz to Wittenberg?
When did Luther receive a degree in Biblical studies?
What did Luther's degree in 1509 concern?
When did Martin Luther receive his Doctor of Theology?
When did Luther enter into the senate of the Theology faculty of the University of Wittenberg?
What position did Luther have in Wittenberg?
Where did Luther spend his career?
What degree did Martin Luther receive on 19 October, 1512?
When was Johann Tetzel sent by the Roman Catholic Church to Germany to sell indulgences?
Why was Tetzel seeking money in Germany?
What theology states that faith alone isn't enough to justify man?
What does man's justification depend on in faith?
What is the Catholic doctrine of fides caritate formata?
When did Martin Luther protest the sale of indulgences to his bishop?
In 1517 who was Luther's bishop?
What was Luther's Disputation of Martin Luther on the Power and Efficacy of Indulgences later called?
Who contends that Luther did not intend to oppose the church?
Which Thesis questions the Pope's actions in building the basilica of St. Peter with the money of the poor?
Whose saying about purgatory did Martin Luther object to?
How did Tetzel state that the soul could leave purgatory?
Who objected to Tetzel's collections of money to free souls from purgatory?
What church money collector said that the sould would spring from purgatory through monetary donations?
Who did Martin Luther say was the lone granter of forgiveness?
What were these indulgences supposed to grant the giver?
What did giving money to the church absolve the giver from?
What did Luther call these donations?
Who did Luther say that Christians must not slacken in following?
Whose saying about freeing souls from purgatory was often quoted?
What did this statement of Tetzel's show about him?
Where did Tetzel overstate his teachings?
Where were Tetzel's teachings in line with Church dogma?
What story has little foundation in truth?
What story of little truth is a pillar of history?
On whose comments is the posting on the door based?
Where was Melanchthon at the time?
What do scholars agree on about the posting on the door story?
When was Luther's 95 Theses translated into German?
What device was one of the first to aid a controversy?
Who translated and printed Luther's 95 These?
How long did it take for the Theses printing to spread thought Germany?
How long did it take for the Theses to spread through Europe?
When did Luther's writings to spread to France, England and Italy?
Who went to Wittenberg to hear Luther speak?
What part of Luther's career was one of his most productive?
When were some of Luther's best-known works published?
Besides publishing To the Christian Nobility of the German Nation and On the Babylonian Captivity of the Church, what other work did Luther produce in 1520?
What did Martin Luther do during 1510 to 1520?
What sections of Church dogma did Luther come to view in another way?
What did Luther decide about the Catholic Church?
What, to Luther had the Church lost sight of?
What is the central article of the Christian doctrine?
Of whom, to Luther, was justification entirely the work?
When did Luther publish On the Bondage of the Will?
What did Luther consider faith to be?
Where did Luther explain his idea of justification?
By what did Luther believe the just person lives?
What was the first point of the Reformation?
What became the foundation of the Reformation?
What fueled Luther's concept of Christ and His Salvation?
How many points are there in the foundation of the Reformation?
To whom did Luther send a letter containing his 95 Theses?
After Archbishop Albrecht reviewed the Theses, where did he send them?
What did Albrecht need the indulgences to pay for?
How much of the indulgences went to Rome?
When did Archbishop Albrecht send Luther's letter containing the 95 Theses to Rome?
Which Pope sought to undermine Luther's theories?
What did Pope Leo X launch against Luther?
When was Luther examined at Augsburg by the papal legate?
What did Luther tell the legate about the papacy?
What were the papal legate's orders from the Pope?
When did papal nuncio Karl von Miltitz get Luther to make concessions?
What did Luther promise to do as a concession?
Who was determined to expose Luther at this time?
What scripture did Luther use to back up his opinion that churchmen were not infallible?
What did Johann Eck call Luther?
When did the Pope warned Luther of excommunication?
What did Luther need to do to avoid excommunication?
What was the time limit on Luther's recantation of sentences?
Who attempted to arrange a compromise?
When did Pope Leo X excommunicate Luther?
What authority enforced the ban on the 95 Theses?
When did Luther appeared before the Diet of Worms?
Of what was the Diet of Worms an assembly?
Who presided over the assembly?
Who got a safe conduct pass for Luther to come and leave the event?
Who spoke to Luther about his books on behalf of the Empire?
To whom was Johann Eck the assistant?
After asking if the books were his, what else did Eck ask Luther?
When did Luther give his response to Eck?
How did Luther respond after being asked if the books were his?
What did Luther do at the end of his speech?
What was the style of Luther's salute at the end of his speech?
Who considers Luther's speech a world classic?
What did Michael Mullet call Luther's speech?
What did Luther refuse to do?
Who said, "Here I stand. I can do no other"?
Why is the statement doubtful in the eyes of scholars?
What manner of words does Mullet think Luther would choose?
How was the fate of Luther decided?
When was the Edict of Worms presented?
Who presented the Edict of Worms declaring Luther to be an outlaw?
Besides declaring Luther to be an outlaw and banning his works, what else was decided?
What could anyone do to Martin Luther without legal consequence?
What was planned for Luther by Frederick III after the meeting?
Where did the highwaymen take Luther?
What did Luther call his stay a Wartburg Castle?
What book did Luther translate into German at this time?
How did Luther persuade Archbishop Albrecht to stop the sale of indulgences?
What did Luther call good works that existed solely to attract God's favor?
What did Luther explain about acquiring God's grace?
When did Luther write to Melanchhon about God's grace?
What did Luther expound to be greater than sin?
What does Luther write that this life doesn't have?
When did Luther broaden his attacks to include core Church doctrines?
How did Luther describe the mass that was viewed as sacrifice?
What did Luther call the mass instead of sacrifice?
After rejecting compulsory confession, what did Luther call for?
What did Luther tell monks and nuns about their vows?
How did Luther broaden the Reformation in terms of prophecy?
When did Luther start preaching Prophetic faith?
At this time where was Luther's focus centered?
What is the prophecy in Daniel that interested Luther?
What did Luther identify the Papacy as?
Who supported Andreas Karistadt in reform at Wittenberg?
When did Zwilling and Karistadt become active at Wittenberg?
What did the reforms cause?
What group was responsible for causing more violence in Wittenberg?
Who asked Luther to return to the city?
When did Luther return to Wittenberg?
What did Luther think was required to stop the violence?
What did Luther do during Lent at this time?
What are the eight sermons called that Luther preached in March 1522?
How did Luther want people to bring about change?
How quick was the effect of Luther's preaching?
Who wrote a resounding letter to the elector praising Luther?
At what point in Luther's sermons did Schurf write to the elector?
What did Schurf's letter say Luther's return caused?
What type of people were being brought back to the way of truth?
What did Luther seek to restore?
What was Luther's force within the Reformation?
Who did Luther banish?
What did the radical reformers cause in the new order?
Besides the radicals who else did Luther have to deal with?
What was Nicholas Storch?
What event did Storch and Muntzer help instigate?
When did The German Peasants War happen?
What did the peasants believe Luther would do for them?
Who did the peasants think Luther would support an attack on?
Who did Luther remind the peasants to obey?
Where did Luther become angry at the widespread destruction of church property?
What did Luther call the revolting peasants?
How did Luther express the destruction?
Who did Luther call on to stop the revolt?
How many ways did Luther justify his opposition to revolt?
What were the protesters doing with Christ's counsel?
By whom did St Paul say all authorities were appointed?
What is this doctrine of God appointing authorities called?
What kind of death did Luther say the revolting peasants deserve?
What did Luther deny the rebels?
Who defeated the rebels at the Battle of Frankenhausen?
When was the Battle of Frankenhausen?
What event followed the battle?
What protection caused Luther's Reformation to flourish?
Who did Martin Luther marry?
How did Luther smuggle 12 nuns out of a convent during the rebellion?
How old was Katharina when she married Luther?
How old was Martin Luther when he married?
When did Luther save the group of nuns from the convent?
When were Luther and his prospective bride engaged?
At what point in the day was the couple married?
Besides the walk to the church, what else was left out of the day's celebration?
When was the wedding banquet celebrated?
Who married the wedding couple?
What was Luther's marriage seen as by others?
What kind of marriage was this?
Why did Luther condemn vows of celibacy?
What did Luther fear to cause him to avoid marriage?
What did Melanchthon call the marriage?
When did Luther and his wife live?
What was the Black Cloister?
How many children did Luther and his wife have?
What did Luther state he would not exchange for his life with his wife?
Besides taking in boarders, how did Katharina help support the family?
In organizing a new church, what did Luther find to be unworkable for congregations?
What did Luther form in 1525 to 1529?
What did Luther establish as a worship service in his church?
What did Luther write as an outline of the new faith?
What is Luther's thought about the extent of his church?
What did Luther try to avoid in setting up his church?
Where was Luther mostly concentrating his efforts on reform?
What role did Luther play in other areas' churches?
Who was the new elector of Saxony?
What unintended development did the relationship with the elector have on church government?
When did Luther write a German mass?
What did Luther not mean for the new mass to replace?
For whom was this new mass intended?
What parts of the original Catholic mass did Luther leave out of his new mass?
What did the new mass allow as regards ceremony?
When did Luther introduce the new worship?
What began in 1527 when Luther introdued the new order of worship?
What type of education was assessed during this time?
What did Luther say the common people knew nothing about?
What were many pastors unable to do?
What did Luther devise to teach Christianity to the congregation?
When did Luther write the Large Catechism?
To whom was the Large Catechism directed?
For whom was the Small Catechism meant?
What did Luther add to his catechisms?
What was one of Luther's most personal writings?
What effort was Luther not particularly in favor of?
Besides the Bondage of the Will, what other work did Luther view as a book of his?
What work of Luther's is seen as a clear religious teaching?
What translation of Luther's is still used today?
Which work of Luther's is effective in teaching children?
What work is useful for pastors?
What are the Catechisms of Martin Luther written in?
How did Luther show the Trinity in his catechisms?
Where does Luther place Salvation?
When did Martin Luther publish his translation of the New Testament?
When was the Old Testament translation finished?
What did he work on refining until the end of his life?
What word was Luther criticized for adding in Romans3:28?
According to Luther what justifies us?
Where was the language Luther used in his translations spoken?
Which Germans could understand the language Luther used?
What group did Luther want to understand his works?
Why did he want to make the language accessible to people?
To promote accessibility of the works, what did Luther remove?
At the time of Martin Luther what was in demand?
What work of Luther's became popular?
What did the popularity of Luther's translation contribute to?
What artist provided the woodcuts for Luther's Bible?
Whose English translation of the Bible did the Luther Bible influence?
In what type of work was Luther prolific?
What art forms did Luther use to connect his hymns?
What did Luther use to celebrate worship?
What did Luther use as accompaniment to his hymns?
What instrument became a national instrument in Germany?
What caused Luther to write hymns?
Why were Johann Esch and Heinrich Voes executed by the Catholic Church?
What hymn did Luther write after the martyrdom of Esch and Voes?
Who is the English translator of this hymn?
What is the hymn known as in English?
When did Luther write Wir glauben all an einen Gott?
What did this hymn presage?
Where is the Apostles located?
What earlier hymn was Luther's adapted from?
Why have modern Lutherans stopped using the hymn?
When did Luther produce a hymnic version of the Lord's Prayer?
Where is the comparison found of this Lord's Prayer hymn?
What was the hymn meant to examine students on?
What does the original manuscript show?
What do later versions of the Lord's Prayer hymn still use?
When did Luther write the hymn From Depths of Woe I cry to You?
What is the basis of the hymn?
What did Luther use the hymn to encourage colleagues to do?
What was the first Lutheran hymnal?
What did the hymn, Aus tiefer Not express?
Which of Luther's hymn was the main one for Advent?
What was the hymn based on?
What is a Hauptlied?
How many hymns did Luther write based on the Ten Commandments?
What did Herr Gott, dich loben wir become known as?
What does Luther's hymn Christ unser Herr zum jordan kam concern?
Whose tune did Luther adapt for the hymn of Psalm 67?
What is Psalm 67 about?
What famous composer used a Lutheran hymn in his work?
Where was the baptismal hymn used to introduce the Reformation?
Where were Luther's hymns included?
How many hymns of Luther were included in the Achtliederbuch?
How many hymns did Luther contribute to the Erfurt Enchiridion?
How many hymns did Luther write for the first choral hymnal?
What was the title of the first choral hymnal?
What composer used Luther's hymns in his works?
What did Bach base entirely on Luther chorales?
What is the earliest that Bach began using Luther hymns?
In what years did Bach use more of Luther's hymns in his compositions?
When was the last use by Bach of Luther's work?
What did Luther believe that the soul does after death?
What other doctrines did Luther disavow about saints?
What did Luther expound happened to souls after death?
What did Luther think of Purgatory?
Where did Luther describe the resting place of the saints?
Who noticed that Luther's view of the soul after death differed from later theologians?
What theologian differed in views about the soul from Luther?
Who else observed that Luther view of souls was different form later views?
When did Gerhard Lessing reach his conclusions about Luther?
Where did Luther say that the soul doesn't sleep, but rather has visions?
Who stated that John Jortin misunderstood Luther?
When did Blackburne make his argument about Luther and souls?
Who pointed out that the passage under dispute actually refers to a living man?
What did Fritschel say the man's sleep was disturbed by?
When did Philip I convene an assembly to set doctrine in the Protestant states?
Who was Philip I?
What was the Marburg Colloquy meant to establish?
How many of the fifteen points of discussion were agreed on?
What one point was not agreed on that was dear to Luther?
What point did the theologians differ on concerning the Last Supper?
What did Luther insist was present in the bread and wine?
What did Luther call the consecrated bread and wine?
What did Luther's opponents think that it meant about God's presence?
What did the meeting often become in argument?
When was the Augsburg Confession signed?
What paved the way for the Augsburg Confession?
What did Protestant nobles form the following year after the signing of the Augsburg Confession?
Which group did not agree to sign these agreements?
What ruler, besides John of Saxony and Philip of Hesse, formed the Schmalkaldic League?
What do scholars sometimes assert that Luther believed about what faith and reason were to each other?
What did Luther think that faith could not be understood by?
How did Luther say that reason contributes to faith?
What was faith's greatest enemy according to Luther?
By separating faith and reason, what does Luther honor?
What did Luther state as a means of discouraging mistreatment of Jews?
What did Luther gradually see as hopeless in the Reformation?
Who did Luther strike out against in later years?
Luther treated Jews in a like way as he treated what group?
When did Luther write an extreme treatise against the Jews?
How did Luther view the Ottoman Turks?
What was the purpose of the Turks in Luther's mind?
Since Luther believed that the Turks were sent by God, what was their purpose?
Who did Luther view to be the Antichrist?
What kind of war did Luther support against the Turks, even if he did not oppose a religious war?
What book did Luther read in 1542?
What type of writings did the reading of the Qur'an bring out in Luther?
What were Mohammedanism and the Turk?
How did Luther view Islam?
What purpose would Luther have in not wanting to ban the Qur'an?
What did Johannes Agricola preach that God's gospel revealed?
Who did Luther think was behind the antinomian theses circulating in Wittenberg?
What did Agricola apparently believe about who should be in control law?
How did Luther respond to Agricola?
What book did Luther write in response to Agricola and the antinomians?
What did Luther's answer to the antinomians reaffirms?
What is the use of the law by the Holy Spirit?
What is Luther's opinion of what the law covers??
What does refusing to preach the Ten Commandments not do?
What did Luther claim the church would have to comprise if the law were not taught?
What do the Ten Commandments teach Christians how to do?
What is God's expression of eternal will, according to Luther?
Teaching Christians how they should live is what use of the law?
What did Luther consider Christ's life?
What should a Christian follow in his life?
What sacrament accords Christians renewed life?
Besides baptism, what shows the future of heaven to Christians?
What does the Ten Commandments ask of the Christians?
What did Philip I wish to do around 1539?
What did Luther get implicated in concerning Philip I?
Who did Philip I want to marry?
Who does history view as accountable for the error Philip I made and Luther's advice in the matter?
What did this affair cause to Luther's reputation?
What had Luther's community done to Jews years earlier?
Who did Luther write about, but seldom met?
What did Luther's area and tradition believe Jews to be guilty of?
What did Jews refuse to accept that caused Luther to call them blasphemers and liars?
What did Luther try to do for the Jews?
What was Luther's major work of 60,000 words on the Jews?
When was the large work published?
How near to his death was the work published?
What did Luther contend the Jews to be?
As what did Robert Michael view Luther's violent language towards the Jews?
What did Luther speak out about in Saxony?
Who did Josel of Rosheim blame for the condition of Jews in Saxony?
What did Josel of Rosheim claimed that Luther said of those who might aid the Jews?
What did Josel ask the city of Strasbourg to forbid the sale of?
When did riots cause the expulsion of Jews from several German states?
Who was the most widely read writer of his generation?
What action by Luther added to antisemitism in Germany?
What later actions by the Nazis could be traced back to Luther's rhetoric?
Whose writings were widely quoted by the Third Reich?
How did Der Sturmer describe Luther's On the Jews and their Lies
When did seven Protestant churches agree with the Nazi policy of forcing Jews to wear yellow arm bands?
Who did the churches claim had suggested expulsion of Jews from Germany?
Who claimed Luther's writings were a blueprint of actions against Jews?
Who agreed with the burning of synagogues?
What did Sasse proclaim Luther to be?
How do some scholars view the Nazi use of Luther's work?
What did Martin Brecht call Luther's stand on the Jews?
What did this agitation provide later generations material for?
When was Luther's writings about the Jews ignored, according to Johannes Wallmann?
What did Roland Bainton say about Luther's position on Jews?
Other scholars contend that Luther's words lent what element to Christian suspicion of Jews?
Who thinks that Luther added antisemitism as a cultural element to Germany?
What did Paul Rose say Luther added to German thought?
Who aide the Reich in Germany in antisemitism?
What did these Lutheran clerics use as fuel to bolster the Policies of the Nazis?
What does Mark U. Edwards claim as a possible cause of Luther's antisemitism?
What about Luther declined as his antisemitism increased?
What kind of affect did Luther often use in his discourses?
Who else did Luther use violent rhetoric towards?
What is the title of Edwards book about Luther?
When have Lutheran Churches repudiated Luther's statements about the Jews?
What did a survey of North American Lutherans find that Lutherans felt about Jews compared to other minority groups?
Who found that Protestants voted for Nazis more than Catholics?
When were the elections that produced a higher vote by Protestant Nazi sympathizers than by Catholics?
How was Luther's health for the years of 1531 to 1546?
Besides the arguments with Rome and his own fellow reformers, what scandal contributed to Luther's failing health?
What did Luther begin to experience in 1536?
What other health issues did Luther have?
By 1544 what did Luther have to deal with in his health?
What made Luther even more short tempered than usual?
What other aspect of Luther's life was affected by his health?
How did Luther's writings sound as he became less healthy?
Who scolded Luther about his rudeness?
How many times did Luther preach in Halle in 1545 and 1546?
Where was Luther's last sermon preached?
When was Luther's last sermon?
What was the focus of Luther's last sermon?
From whence did Luther want to expel the Jews?
What did Luther say would allow the Jews to stay?
To where was Luther's final journey?
What was Luther involved in dealing with the minds in Mansfeld?
When did Luther travel to Mansfeld twice?
When was a third visit to Mnafeld scheduled?
For whom was Luther concerned about in Mansfeld?
When were the negotiations finished in Mansfeld?
After the negotiations were done what did Luther experience?
Luther went to bed quoting what scripture?
What is Psalm 31:5?
When did Luther waken with more chest pains?
What event took away his ability of speech?
At what time did Martin Luther die?
On what date did Luther die?
Where was Luther buried?
Who performed the funeral for Martin Luther?
What was later discovered written by Luther?
In what language was most of the statement written?
What portion of Luther's last statement was in German?
What kind of images of Luther were used to advertise Protestantism?
In contrast how were Catholic saints portrayed?
How was Luther presented as an image to spread Protestantism?
What was the image of Luther a contrast to the life of?
When were images being used to promote the spread of Lutheranism?
When is Luther commemorated in the Lutheran Calendar of Saints?
On what other calendar is Luther commemorated?
When is Luther commemorated by the Church of England?
On what English calendar is Luther commemorated?
How is Luther commemorated on the Lutheran, Episcopal, and Church of England calendars?
What is Southern California often abbreviated as?
Despite being traditionall described as "eight counties", how many counties does this region actually have?
What is a major importance of Southern California in relation to California and the United States?
What are the ties that best described what the "eight counties" are based on?
The reasons for the las two counties to be added are based on what?
What is the name of the region that is not defined by the eight or 10 county definitions?
How many megaregions are there in the United States?
What is the name of the state that the megaregion expands to in the east?
Which border does the megaregion extend over?
What is the name of the area past the border that the megaregion extends into?
Which coastline does Southern California touch?
How many metropolitan areas does Southern California's population encompass?
How many inhabitants does the Los Angeles area contain?
Which of the three heavily populated areas has the least number of inhabitants?
How many people does the Greater Los Angeles Area have?
What is the name of the water body that is found to the east?
What is the name of the desert on the border of Arizona?
What is the name of the desert near the border of Nevada?
What is the name of the border to the south?
The cities of Los Angeles and San Diego are a part of which state?
What is the population of Los Angeles?
Which city is the most populous in California?
What is the eighth most populous city in the nation?
In which cardinal direction from Los Angeles is San Diego?
Orange, San Diego, Riverside and San Bernardino make up four of the five counties. What is the name of the last county?
What country are all the counties in?
What are Los Angeles, Orange, San Diego, San Bernardino and Riverside?
What is the lowest ranking one of the counties could have in terms of most populous counties in the United States?
What is the smallest geographical region discussed?
What is the name given to the district that is associated with the motion picture industry?
Which city does the Hollywood district belong to?
Which company owns ABC?
Other than the motion picture and television industry, what other major industry is centered in Los Angeles?
Other than Universal and Warner Brothers, what other company runs a major record company?
Other than surf, what other culture is southern California home to?
What is the name of the professional skateboarder that lives in southern California?
What famous snowbaorder lives in southern California?
Southern California is second to which island in terms of famous serf breaks?
What is the shortened name of the annual yacht race that takes place?
What is the name of the desert city?
Other than the desert city why do many locals and tourists frequent southern California?
Which region of California is Palm Springs located in?
Other than for its resort feel, what is Palm Springs popular for?
Geographically speaking, where is California's north - south midway point in terms of latitude?
How many miles south of San Jose is the north - south midway point located?
The term "southern" California usually refers to how many of the southern-most counties of the state?
Other than Point Conception, what landmark is used in the other definition of southern California?
Point Conception is an example of a landmark among what boundary of southern California?
Which country used to rule California?
Los Angeles is in the lower part of what?
Which Californio is located in the upper part?
What was the name of the legislation passed in 1850?
The legislation allowed California to be admitted to the Union as what kind of state?
Other than land laws, what else were the Californios dissatisfied with?
What was the name given to the regions in which the pro - slavery southerners lived?
How many times did southern California attempt to achieve a separate statehood?
What was the percentage of people that voted in favor of the Pico Act of 1859?
Which Senator was a strong advocate for the Pico Act?
Which newspaper defined southern California?
In which year did the newspaper define southern California?
In which year did the newspaper change its previous definition?
What was the newer county added to the list?
How many counties initially made up the definition of southern California?
Which organizations most commonly divide and promote the state?
Other than the Automobile Club of Southern California, what other AAA Auto Club chose to simplify the divide?
The two AAA clubs divided the state into a northern and southern California as opposed to what point of view?
Which mountain range influenced the split of the regions?
In the definition based off the mountain range, which region would the desert portions of north Los Angeles County be included in?
Where does southern California's megalopolis standard in terms of population nationwide?
Although southern california consts of a heavily developed urban environment, how much of it has been left undeveloped?
Southern Californian communities are well known to be large, spread - out, and what other characteristic?
Outside of its use of automobiles, what else is southern California famous for using?
What kind of region can be found inside the urban area of southern California?
What is the main gap to continued urbanization?
Other than the San Diego metropolitan area, what other area are the communities along Interstates 15 and 215 connected with?
Who considers Los Angeles County to be a separate metropolitan area?
Other than L.A. which other county do many people commute to?
Other than the 1980s, in which decade did most of San Bernardino and Riverside Counties develop?
What kind of climate does southern California maintain?
Other than many sunny days, what characteristic is typical for the climate in souther California?
What is the low end of the temperature range in summer?
How frequent is snow in the Southwest of the state?
What is the high end of the temperature range in winter?
The region spans starting at islands found in which body of water?
What term best describes southern California's collection of landscapes?
What type of landscapes other than geologic and natural ecosystem landscapes can be found in southern California?
The region spans which mountains other than the Transverse ranges?
The mountain ranges tail off into what kind of geographical formation?
How many earthquakes does southern California experience in a year?
Generally speaking, what size are the earthquakes that hit southern California?
What magnitude was the 1994 Northridge earthquake?
What kind of destruction did the 1994 earthquake cause the most of in US history?
How much was the 1994 earthquake estimated to have cost?
Which fault can produce a magnitude earthquake of 8.0?
What magnitude of earthquake can many faults produce?
Other than the San Jacinto Fault, and the Elsinore Fault, name one other fault.
Which organization released a California Earthquake forecast?
The earthquake forecast models what features of earthquakes in California?
Southern California's distinctive regions are divided culturally, politically and what other trait?
Outside of national recognition, what other kind of recognition do some of the cities get?
Cities that anchor the regions are often the hub for what kind of activity?
Southern California had a population of 22,680,010 according to the census from which year?
What does southern California have a reputation for?
What is the state average growth rate?
What kind of economy did northern California start to grow in the 2000s?
Which region began to grow and assert itself in the 2000s?
What is the name associated with the eight areas that make up a part of southern California?
How many extended metropolitan areas are there?
Each of the extended metropolitan areas has a population that exceeds what number?
What does the El Centro metropolitan area and San Diego-Carslbad-San Marcos metropolitan area form?
What is the population of the Greater Los Angeles Area?
What is the largest city in all of California?
What is the population of the second largest city in California?
How many cities in southern California have over 200,000 residents?
There are 34 cities in southern California that have a population exceeding what number?
Other than San Bernardino, which other developed southern Californian city is not in close proximity to the coast?
What resource is the economy of southern California depedent on?
Southern California is most famous for tourism and what notably named district?
The region was a leader in what event between 2001 - 2007?
Southern California's economy can be described as one of the largest in the United States and what other characteristic?
What was the effect of the housing crash on the region?
Motion pictures, petroleum and aircraft manufacturing have been major industries since which decade?
What characteristic best describes the agricultural regions that could be found?
Outside of livestock, what else was considered a major industry in the agriculture regions?
Which type of livestock was the argricultural region known for?
What industry has managed to survive major military spending cutbacks?
What type of district is southern California home to many of?
What does CBD stand for?
What is the only district in the CBD to not have "downtown" in it's name?
Downtown Burbank is an example of what kind of district?
Downtown Santa Monica and Downtown Glendale are a part of which area?
Warner Center is located in which area?
Century City is an example of a district that belongs to which city?
The Sand Bernardino - Riverside area maintains what kind of district?
Other than San Bernardino, what is the name of the other city that maintains the districts including University Town?
Other than Downtown San Bernardino, and University Town, what is the name of another business district in the San Bernardino-Riverside area?
Which county is developing its business center?
Where are international corporations headquartered?
Jamboree Business Parks belongs to which business center?
What other business district does Orange County envelop outside of Downtown Santa Ana and Newport Center?
At what rate is Orange County developing its business centers?
What is the central business district of San Diego?
Other than its main central business district, where are the majority of San Diego's business districts located?
Outside of Northern San Diego, which other region contains business districts?
University City is an example of a business district located in which city?
What is the second busiest airport in the United States?
What is the metric they use to determine how busy airports are?
What ranking in terms of busiest airports from international passenger volume is the Los Angeles International Airport?
Which airport is home to the busiest single runway in the world?
What is the world's busiest general aviation airport?
What is the name of the commuter rail system?
How many lines does the commuter rail system have?
How many lines run out of Downtown Los Angeles?
A single line connects San Bernardino, Riverside and what other county?
What is the United States busiest commercial port?
What is the second busiest container port in the United States?
The Port of Long Beach belongs to which region of California?
What is the moniker that is being used to describe the region's diversified technology?
What kind of universities is the region famous for?
What kind of university is the California Institute of Technology?
How many campuses does the University of California have?
How many campuses does the California State University have?
The Los Angeles Rams are an example of what kind of sports team?
The Los Angeles Clippers are a team belonging to which sport?
The Los Angeles Angels of Anaheim are from which sport?
What is the other NHL team aside from the Anaheim Ducks to reside in Southern California?
What is the lone MLS team that belongs to southern California?
Which team was suspended from the MLS?
How many teams did Los Angeles used to have?
Which year resulted in the suspension of one of the two soccer teams?
What was the name of the stadium that the teams played in?
When is the suspended team scheduled to return?
What other kind of sport is popular in southern California?
The Bruins belong to which college?
What is the name of the team from USC?
Which conference do the teams in southern California play in?
The two listed teams play for which NCAA group?
What is a growing sport in southern California?
At which level of education is this sport becoming more popular?
What is rugby rapidly becoming with high schools?
What company was formed by the merger of Sky Television and British Satellite Broadcasting?
Who is the UK's largest digital subscription television company?
What year did BSkyB acquire Sky Italia?
What is the name of the holding company for BSkyB?
What is the name of the United Kingdom operation for BSkyB?
What year was Setanta Sports awarded Primeier Leage rights to broadcast?
How many of the six total packages available to broadcasters was Setanta awarded?
Who purhcased the remaining 4 pacakages available to broadcasters?
How much did Sky bid to win the 4 broadcast pacakges they bought?
What consortium was BSkyB excluded from?
Who did BSkyB team up with because it was not part of the consortium?
How many BSkyB channels were available to customers prior to October 2005?
What channel replaced Sky Travel?
What was Sky Travel later rebranded as?
What service did BSkyB chare additional subscription fees for?
When did Sky launch a TV advertising campaign target towards women?
WHat allows customers to get Sky+ functions if they do not subscribe to BSkyB's channels?
When did BSkyB discontinue the Sky+ Box?
What replaced the Sky+Box?
What is the name of the TV scrambling system BSkyB uses?
Who is VideoGuard owned by?
Who is the parent company of NDS?
Who has design authority over all of the digital satellite receivers that are capable of using their service?
What is the name brand of the personal video recorder that BSkyB offers?
What channels were removed from the network in March of 2007?
What year did BSkyB and Virgin Media have a dispute over the carriage of Sky Channels on cable TV?
What did Virgin Media claim BSkyB did that resulted Virgin not carrying the channels anymore?
What additional srevice did BSkyB offer besides HD channels that they claimed offered "substantially more value"?
What additional srevice did BSkyB offer besides Video on Demand that they claimed offered "substantially more value"?
when did the English High court find Microsoft's use of the term "SkyDrive" infringed on Sky's right?
What year did BSkyB and Microsoft announce their settlement?
What did Microsoft announce that it would rename Sky Drive to?
What did Microsoft announce that it would rename Sky Drive Pro to?
What kind of service is the SkyDrive Service?
Who was the chief executive officer when the service began?
Who's satellites would the new free-to-air channels be broadcast from?
When did BSkyB end their analogue service?
What platform caused BSkyB to end their analogue service?
How many households had BSkyB service in 1994?
Sky UK Limited is formerly known by what name?
What kind of company is Sky UK Limited?
How many customers does Sky UK Limited have as a pay-TV broadcaster as of 2015?
what other digital TV service took Sky UK Limited's most popular spot?
What is the name of Sky Q's broadband router?
What are the Sky Q mini set top boxes able to connect to?
What does connecting different Sky Q boxes enable them to do?
When is Sky going to introduce UHD broadcasts?
When are the new Sky Q products going to be available?
What are BSkyB's standard definition broadcasts compliant with?
Sky Movies and Sky Box office also include what optional soundtracks?
What is Sky+ HD material broadcast using?
What is the proprietary system that Sky+HD uses?
What does most of the HD material use as a standard?
When was Sky Digital launched?
What satellite was used when Sky digital was launched?
What satellite enabled Sky Digital to launch an all new digital service?
How many television and radio channels could the new digital service carry?
What is the position of the satellite that allowed sky to broadcast channels almost elclusively for the United Kingdom?
When did BSkyB launch it's HDTV service?
How many people were registered to receive the HD service prior to launch?
What was the name of the set top box manufacturer that BSkyB was having issues with?
What was the number of customers that the BBC reported had yet to receive the service due to failed deliveries?
What was the total number of homes Sky announced that had Sky+HD in March of 2012?
When did BSkyB announce it's intention to replace it's free-to-air digital channels?
When did Setanta Sports say it would launch as a subscription service?
What platform was Sentanta Sports planning on launching on?
What were NTL's services rebranded as?
What does BSkyB's sport portfolio include?
What are free-to-air encrypted broadcasts known as?
What do some encrypted broadcasts require to view?
What does a receiver have to be equipped with to view encrypted content?
What is the universal band that digital recievers will receive free to air channels on?
What service is a VideoGuard UK equipped receiver dedicated to decrypt?
When were the talks held for braodcast right to the Primier league for a five year period from the 1992 season?
Who were the current rights holders for the Primer League?
What did ITV increase their yearly offer for control of the rights to broadcast the Primer League to?
Who was given the highlights of most of the matches?
How much was BSkyB going to pay for the Primier League rights?
Who does BSkyB have an operating license from?
what is the fee range for accessing BSkyB's EPG?
Can BSkyB veto the presence of channels on their EPG?
Does BSkyB carry any control over a channels content?
Does BSkyB carry any control over the picture quality of a channel?
When was BSkyB's digital service launched?
What was the name of BSkyB's digital service launched under?
What did BSkyB name their interactive service?
Who did BSkyB compete with initially?
Within the 30 days how many digiboxes had been sold?
When was virgin media rebranded from NTL Telewest?
what was NTL Telewest re-branded to in 2007?
What did Virgin Media concentrate on instead of offering linear channels?
What was the one linear HD channel Virgin Media carried from November 2006 to July 2009?
what was the name of the other HD channel Virgin media could carry in the future?
How many homes had BSkyB's direct-to-home satellite service available to them in 2010?
How large was the audience BSkyB said they could reach?
When did BSkyB first announce their target goal?
What was the target percentage of households BSkyB wanted to reach?
What was happening to subscriber numbers in other areas of europe?
What did Alec Shelbrooke propose payments of benefits to be made on?
What could the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program purchase?
what did the UK parliment hear that a subscription to BSkyB was?
What was the UK governments benefits agenchy checking in 2012?
What did the benefits agency think sports channels on a TV bill meant?
What were the annual carriage fees for the channels?
Does the new deal include Video on demand and High Definition?
What company agreed to terminate high court proceedings with BSkyB?
What company agreed to terminate high court proceedings with Virgin Media?
What were high court proceedings being held about?
What kind of economy does Victoria have?
Where according to gross state product does Victoria rank in Australia?
At what rank does GPS per capita set Victoria?
What city in Victoria is called the sporting capital of Australia?
What is the largest stadium in Australia?
Where is the Asian influence strongest in Victoria?
Where were the Lambing Flat riots?
Where was the 1857 riot?
How many miners died in the typhoid outbreak of 1854?
What were the conditions for miners in the gold fields in Victoria?
What kind of representational system does the Victorian Legislative Council have?
How many electorates does the State of Victoria have?
How many representatives does each electorate have?
What is the term of office for each house member?
How often are elections held for the Victorian Parliament?
What political party is strongest in Melbourne's working class suburbs?
What party is strongest in Melbourne's affluent areas?
Which party is strongest in Victoria's northwestern and eastern regions?
What party rules in Melbourne's inner regions?
What party is favored in Bedigo and Geelong?
What percentage of Victorians are Christian?
How many Victorians are Catholic?
What is Victoria's largest non-Christian religion?
How many Victorians are Buddhist?
How many Victorians are non-religious?
Where in Australia is Victoria located?
How does Victoria rank as to population density?
How populous is Victoria compared to other Australian states?
What city is the capital of Victoria?
Compared to other Australian cities, what is the size of Melbourne?
What is the term for the original Aboriginal people of Victoria?
When did Great Britain claim Australia?
Where was Victoria first set to be located in Australia?
Where was the first settlement in Victoria?
When was Victoria first settled?
How much Victorian farmland is farmed in grains?
What percentage of farmland grows wheat?
How much of Victoria's farmland grows hay?
How much does Victoria produce in Australian pears?
How many tonnes of tomatoes does Victoria produce?
When did Victoria enact its constitution?
On what is Victoria's constitution based?
What group can amend the Victorian constitution?
What are the exceptions in the constitution that require special considerations to amend?
What document formed the Parliament of Victoria?
What is the weather type of Mallee and upper Wimmera?
What does the average temperatures exceed in the summer?
How cold does this region of Victoria get in the winner?
What is Victoria's highest monthly temperature?
When was the heatwave in which Hopetoun recorded its highest temperature?
What are public schools in Victoria?
What organization runs the public schools in Victoria?
Since students do not pay tuition, what do they have to pay for schooling in Victoria?
What church runs some private schools in Victoria?
What government set standards do all schools have to meet?
What type of manufacturing plant is Victoria soon losing?
When has Toyota said it will close its Victoria plant?
When did Holden announce that it will close its Victoria plant?
When will Ford's manufacturing plants close?
What brand of car is manufactured in Broadmeadows?
How high are Victoria's alpine regions?
What is the highest peak in Victoria?
How high is Victoria's Mount Bogong?
What type of topological systems are found in numbers in Victoria?
What is the Victoria state bird?
Where is the coldest section of Victoria?
Of what mountain system are the Victorian Alps a part?
In what direction does the mountain system extend?
What is the temperature in the highest portion of the mountain range in winter?
What is the lowest recorded temperature in Victoria?
Who owns the rail lines in Victoria?
Which rail line operates in Melbourne?
What entity owns V/Line?
What type of rail line is Pacific National?
What kind of rail system is Metro Trains Melbourne?
How many seats does Victoria have in the Australian House of Representatives?
How many seats does Victoria have in the Senate?
What is the lower house of the Victorian parliament called?
What is the upper house of the Parliament of Victoria called?
Who is the current Governor of Victoria?
On what date was Victoria declared independent from New South Wales?
When was gold found near Ballarat?
What did the finding of gold in Victoria cause?
How much did the population of Victoria increase in ten years after the discovery of gold?
How much gold did Victoria produce in the years of 1851-1860?
By August 2010 how many public schools did Victoria have?
How many Catholic schools were in Victoria?
How many students were enrolled in public schools in Victoria?
How many full time teachers does Victoria have?
What percentage of private school students go to Catholic schools?
What state in Australia is the center of dairy farming?
How many dairy cows are there in Australia?
What percentage of Australia's dairy cattle are found in Victoria?
How much of Australia's milk is produced in Victoria?
To where is most of the abalone and lobster caught in Victorian waters shipped?
What is the gauge of the Victorian rail lines?
To what gauge have some lines been changed in the west of Victoria?
What gauge of rail lines do two tourist lines use?
Where were the narrow gauge rail lines built in Victoria?
How many narrow gauge rail lines were previously government owned?
When was the colony of New South Wales founded?
What was the name of the eastern half of the colony of 1788?
What name was given to the western half of the colony?
Where was the location of the colonial government that administered the new colony?
When was there a armed protest at Ballarat about mining taxes?
What armed group stopped the uprising at Ballarat?
What was the incident over taxes at Ballarat called?
What did colonial authorities reduce because of the Ballarat revolt?
The passage of what act gave Victoria its own government?
What does the Premier of Victoria need to lead in the Legislative Assembly?
Who sets the legislative agenda in Victoria?
Who can be in the Victorian cabinet?
Who is the current Premier of Victoria?
How are Victorian cabinet members chosen?
How much did the gross agricultural product increase from 2003-04?
What percentage was the increase of agricultural products in 2003-04?
How many farms are there in Victoria?
How much land do farms use in Victoria?
How much percentage of Victoria's land is taken up by farms?
What part do events in Victoria's economy play?
Besides cultural events, what other tourist attraction does Victoria have?
On where are most tourist attractions focused in Victoria?
Where do other tourist events happen in Victoria outside of Melbourne?
What event is held at Bells Beach in Victoria?
Where was France's Huguenot population largely centered?
What was the proportion of Huguenots to Catholics at their peak?
When were the Wars of Religion fought?
What treaty ended the Wars of Religion?
What did this agreement do?
The term Huguenot was originally meant to confer?
What Swiss city was the center of the Calvinist movement?
The term may be related to what politician from Switzerland?
What name was given to the plot to usurp power from the French House of Guise?
When did this attempt take place?
What helped spread Protestantism in France?
When did the first French language bible appear?
Who translated this version of the scriptures?
An illustrated, paraphrased version of this appeared when?
Jean De Rely's illustrated French-language scriptures were first published in what city?
What were the towns granted to the Huguenots in 1598 collectively called?
What was the most important of these cities or towns?
What proclamation officially ended limited Huguenot autonomy?
France laid siege to Montpellier in what year?
When was this proclamation issued?
Where did the first Huguenot colonists settle?
What modern city is located on the original Huguenot colony?
Who was the first Huguenot to arrive at the Cape of Good Hope?
What trading company helped settle Huguenots near the Cape?
The number of new Huguenot colonists declined after what year?
When did Huguenots colonize in North America?
Who led the North American Huguenot colonial expedition?
What was the name of the first Huguenot church in the New World?
By what name is that first Huguenot church known today?
The Huguenots were the first Europeans to live in what modern New York borough?
Where in South Carolina did Huguenot nobility settle?
From whom did the Huguenots in South Carolina purchase land from?
Charleston settler Elie Prioleau was from what French town?
When did the Huguenots secure the right to own land in the Baronies?
What southern city did the Huguenots settle near?
Who was Louis XIV's main rival?
William would eventually gain what throne?
What coalition rose up to oppose Louis XIV's France?
With what European country did the Huguenots feel kinship for emigration to?
When did France and the Dutch fight in the 17th century?
What proclamation abolished protestantism in France?
When was this edict declared?
Which French kind issued this declaration?
How many Huguenots fled France by the 1700s?
What group specifically opposed the Huguenots?
What event was the worst example of Huguenot persecution?
How many Huguenots were killed during this purge?
How did the Huguenots defend themselves?
What was a non-religious reason for the massacre?
When did these rebellions take place?
Where did these uprisings take place?
What King and former Huguenot looked out for the welfare of the group?
Which successor to Henry resumed persecution of the Huguenots?
What were the civil wars caused by the Huguenots called?
How many protestants live in France today?
What percentage of France's population is protestant today?
What northern province in France has a large protestant population?
What is the southern region where protestants are concentrated?
What country currently has a group who call themselves Huguenots?
What city north of New York was settled by Huguenots?
What town in upstate New York was settled by Huguenots?
What Huguenot area is designated as a historical landmark?
What is located within this district?
In what borough is there a neighborhood called Huguenot?
What country initially received the largest number of Huguenot refugees?
How many refugees emigrated to the Dutch Republic?
What was the population of the Dutch Republic before this emigration?
What two areas in the Republic were first to grant rights to the Huguenots?
What declaration predicated the emigration of Huguenot refugees?
Where was the Gate of King Hugo?
By what other name was the Gate known?
Who allegedly haunted the gate?
By what name were the "supposedly reformed" known?
What time of day did these reformed supposedly gather to engage in Huguenot rituals?
Where did Huguenots and Walloons settle in England?
What house was the site of a weaving school in Canterbury?
What social construct did Huguenot refugees in Canterbury practice?
What other English towns were sites of Huguenot settlement?
What is located on the site of The Weaving House currently?
French Church Street is in what Irish town?
What Irish cities had Huguenot mayors in the 1600s and 1700s?
Where is D'Olier Street?
D'Olier Street is named after whom?
The French church in Portarlington was built when?
What is the common term for the loss of key members of French society to Huguenot emigration?
What was the name of France's primary colony in the New World?
What persons were not allowed to settle in New France?
The French and Indian War was the New World aspect of what European conflict?
When did the British defeat New France?
What was Henry IV known as before taking the throne?
When did Henry issue the Edict of Nantes?
What did the Edict do for Huguenots in France?
The edict protected Catholics by discouraging what?
What religion did Henry renounce upon ascending the throne?
What was required of Huguenot children after the Edict was revoked?
How did the revocation restrict Huguenot travel?
How many Huguenots emigrated to North America as colonists?
What were Huguenots who stayed in France eventually known as?
Besides Britain and North America, where else did Huguenot refugees settle?
What were the first two destinations of Huguenot emigres?
When was the French colony in modern day Brazil founded?
What was the Brazilian French colony called?
In what year was Fort Coligny destroyed?
By what document did the Huguenots confess their faith to the Portuguese in Brazil?
Families with French names in South Africa speak what language today?
What South African industry descended from Huguenot settlers?
Where can one find the formerly Huguenot farms in South Africa?
What characteristic identifies the French ancestry of some South Africans?
What Revolutionary War midnight rider was a Huguenot descendant?
What signer of the Articles of Confederation was descended from Huguenots?
In what city is the last Huguenot congregation in the US?
What church in Virginia is maintained by Huguenots as a historic shrine?
In what state is the largest Huguenot Society located?
What industry was centered in Bedfordshire?
What style of lace is erroneously believed by some to have Huguenot influence?
What reference is there to Huguenot lacemakers in the 19th century?
When did Mechlin lace develop?
What were the two Huguenot neighborhoods created in Berlin?
What portion of Berlin's population spoke French by 1700?
Why did Berlin Huguenots switch to German from French in their services?
What years did this occupation take place?
What other Northern European cities had Huguenot congregations?
Which central European country had a Calvinist ruler?
After Huguenots fled France, their last remaining bastion was where?
What did the 18th century Huguenot group call themselves?
Against whom did the Camisards rise up to fight?
French troops put down the Camisard uprisings between what years?
There was a 16th century Huguenot settlement near what modern day Florida city?
Who was the leader who established the colony at Florida?
What was the name of the Florida Huguenot colony?
Which army attacked and destroyed this colony?
When was the colony destroyed?
What was the name of the first Huguenot outpost in South Carolina?
What present-day area was this settlement near?
Which Spanish officer established the settlement at St. Augustine?
When did Ribault first establish a settlement in South Carolina?
What European event caused the Huguenots to abandon Charlesfort?
In what English colony were Huguenot settlers promised land?
In what area of this British colony were Huguenot land grants?
What town was actually granted to the Huguenots on arrival?
How many settlers original settled in Manakintown?
When were these settlers naturalized as English colonists?
When was the Dutch Revolt?
Who did the Dutch fight in the Dutch Revolt?
What Dutch document condemned the Spanish Inquisition?
What leader led the Dutch Revolt and wrote Apologie?
What was the Dutch leader's religious affiliation?
What English law made that country more welcoming to Huguenots?
When was this naturalization act passed?
About how many Walloons and Huguenots emigrated to England and Ireland in this era?
Who was the famous Huguenot theologian and writer in London?
What Catholic Church liturgical belief did Lortie criticize openly?
What war in Ireland featured Huguenot regiments?
Under which leader did the Huguenots fight in this conflict?
Which Irish cities had large Huguenot enclaves?
Huguenots in Killeshandra and County Cavan expanded what agricultural industry?
What textile industry did the Huguenots contribute to in Ireland?
Which noble helped establish the Huguenot settlement in Saarland?
Which Count did the Prince strike an arrangement with?
What industry did the nobleman establish with this settlement?
In what era did some members of this community emigrate to the US?
In what year was the agreement to allow the Saarland settlement reached?
What two member nations of the Holy Roman Empire received Huguenot refugees?
What general religious belief did the nations that received Huguenot refugees have in common?
What area in modern-day Canada received Huguenot immigrants?
What area in South Africa accepted Huguenot colonists?
What made emigration to these colonies attractive?
From what French King did the Huguenot name possibly descend?
What is the theory that this King's name is the origin of "Huguenot" called?
Who is one prominent advocate of this theory?
According to the theory, what does the name "Huguenot" mean?
Other theories of the word's origin can be generally classed as what?
Who was one French pro-reform Roman Catholic of the 15th century?
Where did this pro-reform leader teach?
When did this leader publish a French language Bible?
What leader of the Swiss reformation was a student of Lefevre?
What other European Protestant leader was educated at the University of Paris?
When was the St. Bartholomew's Day Massacre?
What group killed thousands of Huguenots?
How many Huguenots were killed in Toulouse?
When was amnesty granted to those responsible for the massacre?
Reports document that how many Parisien Protestants were killed by September 17?
Who became king in 1643?
How did the new king react to the Huguenots?
What was the king's first approach to the Huguenots?
What did the king do to regarding Huguenot education?
The practice of occupying and looting Huguenot homes was called?
What present day county is New Rochelle in?
Where did the Huguenots land in New York originally?
From whom did the Huguenots purchase the land where they settled?
What French City was New Rochelle named after?
What is the name of the third, permanent Huguenot church in New Rochelle?
How did Huguenots evolve their religious beliefs in the New World?
How were Huguenot settlers assimilated into North American society at large?
Who was one prominent Huguenot-descended arms manufacturer?
For how long did Huguenots continue to use French names?
What was the name of du Pont's gunpowder operation?
Who was a prominent Huguenot in Holland?
Where did he begin teaching?
What books did Bayle publish?
These books became a foundational text for what library?
Who is the patron saint of the Huguenots?
What early Huguenot Church was established in England?
When was the charter for this church signed?
What is the present-day location of this church?
What London neighborhood attracted Huguenot refugees?
When was the Old Truman Brewery founded?
What protestant religions made Northern European counties safe for Huguenot immigration?
Which areas of Northern Europe practiced those religions?
What proclamation gave Huguenots special privileges in Brandenburg?
What dual titles did Frederick William hold?
What military impact did Huguenot immigration have on Frederick's army?
What German ruler invited Huguenot immigration?
What German poet was descended from Huguenots?
What German general and fighter pilot was of Huguenot ancestry?
Who was the final Prime Minister of East Germany?
Thomas de Maiziere serves what role in the German cabinet?
Along with geothermal and nuclear, what is a notable non-combustion heat source?
What ideal thermodynamic cycle analyzes the process by which steam engines work?
In the Rankine cycle, what does water turn into when heated?
At what pressure is water heated in the Rankine cycle?
What types of engines are steam engines?
What was the first true engine that was commercially successful?
Who was the inventor of the atmospheric engine?
About what year was the atmospheric engine invented?
What was invented by Savery?
Who conceptualized the piston?
In what country was a full-scale working railway steam locomotive first invented?
On what date did the first railway trip in the world occur?
Where did the world's first railway journey terminate?
In what constituent country of the United Kingdom is Merthyr Tydfil located?
In what geographical portion of Wales is Abercynon located?
What device is used to recycle the boiler water in most steam engines?
What types of pumps are typically used in industrial boilers?
In what decade were injectors widely used in steam engines?
What is a notable application of injectors today?
What are injectors used to supply?
How many expansion stages are used by the triple expansion engine?
What are engines using four expansion stages known as?
In what century was the Yarrow-Schlick-Tweedy balancing system used?
What sort of engines utilized the Yarrow-Schlick-Tweedy balancing system?
What class of ships is an example of large passenger liners?
Along with poppet valve gears, what type of gears utilized separate admission and exhaust valves to give ideal events?
Along with Stephenson and Walschaerts, what is an example of a simple motion?
How is lap provided by overlapping the admission side port?
What are sometimes present in the boiler's firebox crown?
What happens to the lead fusible plugs if the water level of the boiler drops?
What happens after the lead melts?
After the operators are warned by the escape of the steam, what may they then do?
What is the escape of the steam unlikely to accomplish in all but the smallest boilers?
Who patented a steam engine in 1781?
What sort of motion did Watt's steam engine continuously produce?
How many horsepower was Watt's engine?
As of what year were 10000 horsepower engines available?
What was the steam engine an important component of?
In what century did the history of the steam engine begin?
Who conceptualized the aeolipile?
What was Hero of Alexandria's nationality?
Who described a steam turbine in 1629?
In what year did Jerónimo de Ayanz y Beaumont patent a water pump for draining mines?
What type of engines became widespread around the end of the 19th century?
What are the stages in a compound engine called?
In what field were double and triple expansion engines common?
Along with electric motors, what power sources overtook steam engines in the 20th century?
What product was notably shipped in vessels equipped with double and triple expansion engines?
The use of what device represented the last major evolution of the steam engine?
In what part of the 19th century were steam turbines introduced?
Above what horsepower are steam turbines usually more efficient than steam engines that use reciprocating pistons?
What percentage of electrical power in the United States is made by steam turbines?
Most power of what sort is generated by steam turbines today?
What is the usual source of heat for boiling water in the steam engine?
Aside from firebox, what is another name for the space in which combustible material is burned in the engine?
Along with nuclear, geothermal and internal combustion engine waste heat, what sort of energy might supply the heat for a steam engine?
What type of heating element is often used in toy steam engines?
What instrument is used to examine steam engine performance?
What year saw the earliest recorded use of the steam engine indicator?
What company developed the most successful steam engine indicator?
Who developed a successful steam engine indicator for Charles Porter?
Where was the Charles Porter steam engine indicator shown?
At what degree are the pistons of a two-cylinder compound connected to the cranks?
In a 4-cylinder compound engine, what degree were the individual pistons balanced at?
At what angle were the groups of pistons set in relation to one another in a 4-cylinder compound?
What is a term for the reversing of steam flow in a piston engine after each stroke?
How many piston strokes occur in an engine cycle?
How many crank rotations are there in an engine cycle?
How many events occur in an engine cycle?
Along with admission, exhaust and compression, what is an event in the engine cycle?
What is the name of a uniflow engine that takes in steam in hot areas and exhausts it in cold?
The uniflow engine is an attempt to fix an issue that arises in what cycle?
What part is added to the uniflow engine to resolve the issue in the counterflow cycle?
What type of steam engine doesn't need valves to direct steam?
What is another term for the pivot mounting?
Along with toys, where are oscillating cylinder steam engines typically used?
Full size working engines on what vehicles sometimes use oscillating cylinder steam engines?
What happens to the working fluid in a closed loop system?
What sort of system releases the exhaust steam into the atmosphere?
What working fluid is used in a mercury vapor turbine?
What is the typical working fluid in a steam engine?
What limits the Rankine cycle's efficiency?
What is the turbine entry temperature of a steam turbine, in degrees Celsius?
What is 565 °C the creep limit of?
What is a turbine's theoretical Carnot efficiency?
What is the approximate condenser temperature in a turbine?
What devices have been credited as the moving force of the Industrial Revolution?
Along with road vehicles, locomotives and ships, on what vehicles were steam engines used during the Industrial Revolution?
What is an example of a steam-powered automobile?
Along with mills and mines, in what industrial locations did steam drive machines?
What did the use of steam engines in farming lead to?
What was the name of the locomotive that debuted in 1808?
Who designed Salamanca?
What type of locomotive was Salamanca?
On what railroad was Salamanca used?
For what railroad did Stephenson build a locomotive in 1825?
Who patented a high-pressure compound engine in 1805?
What nationality was Arthur Woolf?
What is decreased by staging expansion across multiple cylinders?
What needs to be larger to get the same work out of lower pressure steam?
What percentage of electricity was made by steam turbine in the 1990s?
What marine engines were less efficient than steam turbines?
Along with diesel engines, what engines have overtaken steam engines for marine propulsion?
What engines were used throughout most of the 20th century to propel ships?
What gearing was used on steam turbine marine engines in the 20th century?
What is the steam engine's thermodynamic basis?
What happens to waste heat in the Rankine cycle?
In what decade did the Rankine cycle create 90% of electric power?
Along with solar, coal and nuclear, what sort of plants notable use the Rankine process?
What is William Rankine's nationality?
How was the efficiency of a steam engine typically evaluated?
What was the average duty of a low-pressure Watt engine?
What was the ideal duty of a Newcomen engine?
What is the weight of a bushel of coal in pounds?
Who invented the notion of a steam engine's duty?
What type of engines became popular for power generation after piston steam engines?
What type of steam engines produced most power up to the early 20th century?
What type of steam engine produces most electricity in the world today?
Along with electric motors, what type of engines superseded piston steam engines?
Who developed the first commercial steam powered device?
What was the first steam powered device used commercially?
In what year was the first commercial steam powered device invented?
Who notably improved the Savery water pump?
Who wrote of the Savery water pump in 1751's Philosophical Transactions?
Who invented a high-pressure steam engine around 1800?
Who created an engine using high pressure steam in 1801?
In what year did Richard Trevithick patent his device?
High pressure steam engines were small enough that they could be used in what application?
What were steam engines used as a source of?
What modern company has been notably working on a steam engine using modern materials?
Where is Energiprojekt AB based?
How many cylinders does the Energiprojekt AB engine have?
How many pounds of steam per kilowatt hour does the Energiprojekt AB engine use?
What percentage of a high pressure engine's efficiency has the Energiprojekt AB engine achieved?
What do power station steam turbines use as a cold sink in the absence of CHP?
What device is a dry cooling tower similar to?
In what sort of places are dry cooling towers used?
An evaporative cooling tower is also referred to as what kind of cooling tower?
About how many cubic meters of make-up water is used by a 700-megawatt coal-fired power plant for evaporative cooling hourly?
What did Watt add to the steam engine in 1788?
What was the name of Watt's partner?
Where was the centrifugal governor first observed by Boulton?
What is an examine of work that a centrifugal governor-equipped steam engine wasn't suitable for?
What was the centrifugal governor incapable of doing?
After what year was compounding frequently used in marine engines?
Compounding was not popular in the construction of what machines?
What was compounding seen as being in the locomotive construction industry?
After what year did compounding cease to be used in Britain?
Along with marine engines and industrial units, in what machines was compounding popular?
What is another term for shortening the admission event?
What is another term for excessive compression?
What can the exhaust steam not fully do when the exhaust event is insufficiently long?
Of what length are engine cycle events when the simplest valve gears are used?
Who received the first steam engine patent?
What was the nationality of Jerónimo de Ayanz y Beaumont?
In what year did Jerónimo de Ayanz y Beaumont receive a steam engine patent?
In what year did Savery patent his steam pump?
In what year did Newcomen's engine pump in a mine?
What is another term for rotors?
In a steam turbine, what are rotors mounted on?
What is another way of referring to stators?
What are stators attached to?
In the United States, what is a usual turbine speed with 60 Hertz of power?
What is the power-to-weight ratio of a steam plant compared to that of an internal combustion engine?
Along with internal combustion engines, what machines have superseded steam in some areas?
What plants create most electric power?
What is the name of the movement that seeks renewed use of steam power in the modern era?
Along with fuel sources, what concern has contributed to the development of the Advanced Steam movement?
What is an example of a rotary engine without pistons?
What parts of a conventional reciprocating steam engine could be replaced by a pistonless rotary engine?
Along with wear, what development makes it difficult to seal the rotors in an engine that lacks pistons?
When did Watt finish the development of his improvements to Newcomen's engine?
What did Watt add to Newcomen's engine between 1763 and 1775?
Compared to Smeaton's improvement on Newcomen's engine, how much coal did Watt's engine use?
In addition to Watt, Boulton and Smeaton, whose engine was an atmosphere design?
In an atmospheric engine, what does air pressure push against?
How many mechanisms does a typical steam engine have to keep boiler pressure from getting too high?
What is restrained with a lever in the top of a boiler?
What type of valve is used by recent safety valves?
In an adjustable spring-loaded valve, what needs to be broken to allow an operator to tamper with it?
Along with a desire for more steam pressure, what were early drivers looking to generate when they fastened safety valves down?
What was the ultimate development of the horizontal engine?
In what year was the Corliss engine patented?
How much less steam did the Corliss engine use compared to the Watt engine?
How many valves did the Corliss engine use?
What award was given to Corliss?
What scientific field's theory has received contributions from the steam engine?
Who made experimental measurements on a model steam engine?
What was developed from Watt's measurements on a model steam engine?
Who confirmed Watt's discovery of latent heat?
What concept, originally discovered by Black, was later discovered independently by Watt?
What is a main advantage of the Rankine cycle?
During the compression stage of the Rankine cycle, what state is the working fluid in?
How much turbine power is consumed by the pump while the work fluid is condensed?
What is the approximate turbine entry temperature of a gas turbine?
What is an example of a pump component?
In addition to recirculating water, what do condensers do?
What components raise steam temperature above its saturated vapor point?
What is another name for a coal supply bin?
What mechanism moves coal from a bunker to the firebox?
The frequent availability of what substance allowed land-based steam engines to exhaust a great deal of steam?
People of what nationality invented the steam turbine?
What was an example of a type of warship that required high speed?
Other than warships, what ships typically required high speeds?
In what year was HMS Dreadnought launched?
What do nuclear power plants heat to create electricity?
What does the steam generated by a nuclear power plant drive?
In a nuclear power plant, what is the steam turbine connected to?
What is it called when steam propels a turbo generator with electric motor propulsion?
Where were non-condensing direct-drive locomotives notably used for fast passenger trains?
What is the Rankine cycle sometimes called?
Where does heat rejection occur in the Rankine cycle?
What does isobaric mean?
What is a term that means constant temperature?
In the Rankine cycle, in what state is the working fluid received in the condenser?
The atomic number of the periodic table for oxygen?
What is the second most abundant element?
How many atoms combine to form dioxygen?
Roughly, how much oxygen makes up the Earth crust?
Which gas makes up 20.8% of the Earth's atmosphere?
How much of the earth's atmosphere is diatomic oxygen?
What element makes up almost half of the earth's crust by mass?
What is the atomic number for oxygen?
Are atmospheric oxygen levels going up, down, or staying the same?
What are the three most abundent elements of the universe by mass?
What is the atomic number of the element oxygen?
Of what group in the periodic table is oxygen a member?
What type of compounds does oxygen most commonly form?
Compared to other elements, how abundant does oxygen rank?
Under normal conditions, what do two atoms of oxygen form?
Oxygen is released in cellular respiration by?
Photosynthesis uses which energy to for oxygen from water?
_____ Helps the biospher from UV.
What element is found in most organic organisms?
In what major portion of living things is oxygen found?
What life process produces oxygen in the presence of light?
From what does photosynthesis get oxygen?
What form of oxygen is composed of three oxygen atoms?
Who proved that air is necessary for combustion?
What English chemist showed that fire only needed nitoaereus?
What is consumed in both combustion and respiration?
John Mayow died in what year?
What researcher showed that air is a necessity for combustion?
What did John Mayow name the part of air that caused combustion?
In what century did Mayow and Boyle perform their experiments?
Besides combustion, for what other action did Mayow show nitroaereus responsible?
What chemist showed that fire needed only a part of air?
"An Account of Further Discoveries in Air" was published by who in 1775?
What was the occupation of Joseph Priestley?
The symbol for mercuric oxide is?
By sunlight, what compound did Priestley concentrate on to make the gas he called "dephlogisticated air"?
What chemical did Priestley use in his experiments on oxygen?
What did Priestley name the gas his experiment produced?
In what year did Priestley publish the findings of his experiments?
Why is Priestley usually given credit for being first to discover oxygen?
What effect did breathing Priestley's discovered gas have on the experiment's mouse?
What inventor built on to the findings of Philo of Byzantium?
Pneumatica was written by what Greek writer?
In what year was the first known experiments on combustion and air conducted?
Philo of Byzantium ____ surmised that air converted to fire
What early Greek wrote about experiments on air and combustion?
What did Philo incorrectly assume that the air became?
What was the title of Philo's work?
What famous artist later further investigated Philo's experiments?
Of what did da Vinci think a part was consumed during combustion?
What is needed to make combustion happen?
Combustion is caused by an oxidant and a fuel. What role does oxygen play in combustion?
Peroxides, nitrates and dichromates are examples of what type of compounds?
Although not a fuel ___ is the chemical compound the generates the most occurrence of explosions.
What is a spark or heat to the progress of a fire?
Rather than the fuel, what is oxygen to a fire?
What can concentrated oxygen produce?
What does oxygen the basis for in combustion?
What other sources of high oxidative potential can add to a fire?
What chemical element was the cause of the Apollo 1 disastrous outcome?
______ In both liquid and gas form can fastly result in an exlposion.
To ensure safety of future space missions Oxygen was used at _____ of the normal pressure.
To reduce the chances of combustion ___ is required for safely handeling pure O.
What will concentrated oxygen greatly speed up?
Because of the danger inherent in concentrated oxygen, what is a concern about keeping it?
What does the transport and storage demand for safety in dealing with oxygen?
Who did a pressurized oxygen cabin fire kill?
Granite is made up largely of what chemical compound?
Oxygen exists in the atmosphere by way of what?
Silicates of magnesium and iron make up of the Earth's ___
In what compound is oxygen found in small amounts in the atmosphere?
What geologic feature is composed of oxygen oxides?
What part of the Earth is composed of mostly of silicates of iron and magnesium?
What part of the Earth's geological structure is larger than the crust?
Aside from oxides, what other compounds comprise a large portion of the Earth's crust?
What did John Dalton think that all elements were in number present in compounds?
What did Dalton think the atomic ratios were between atoms in compounds?
What was Dalton's erroneous formula for water?
What element did Gay-Lussac and von Humboldt discover was present in twice the amount of oxygen in water?
What theory was arrived at in 1811 that presented the assumption of diatomic molecules?
Of what were materials that left little residue thought to contain?
What type of combustible materials were considered to have little philogiston?
What distinct quality of combustion was absent from philogiston theory?
What material's weight gain during rusting was an early clue that philogiston theory was wrong?
What characteristic due most items display after burning?
How is dioxygen most simply described?
What is the bond order of dioxygen molecules?
What is a descriptive term for a low-to-high energy bond?
In dioxygen how are the two oxygen atoms bonded together?
Of what does the covalent double bond result from?
When did Carl Wilhelm Scheele discover oxygen?
In what year did Joseph Priestley recognize oxygen?
What gave Priestley the claim to being the first discovered of oxygen?
What researcher first used the word oxygen?
What previous work did Lavoisier experiments discredit?
What is the term for the arrangement of two unpaired electrons in dioxygen?
How is the O2 molecule referred to in its ground state?
What causes triplet oxygen to react slowly?
What type of combustion does the slow reaction of triplet oxygen prevent?
What are the weakly filled higher orbitals of oxygen?
What did Lavoisier conclude was consumed by combustion in his experiments?
In what way did Lavoisier see that the tin he used in his experiment had increased?
What did Lavoisier perceive the air had lost as much as the tin had gained
In what year did Lavoisier publish his work on combustion?
What second part of air was deemed lifeless by Lavoisier?
What is the name for O3 most often used?
Of what is ozone a reactive part of oxygen?
What does ozone's characteristic to cause damage effect?
What function does ozone perform for the planet?
What light radiation does ozone absorb?
What is the most common form of oxygen on the planet?
What is the scientific designation of oxygen?
What part the composition of the Earth's atmosphere is comprised of oxygen?
What characteristic of oxygen makes it necessary to life?
For what purpose is oxygen used by animal life?
What chemist managed to make enough liquid oxygen to use for study?
In what year did Dewar experiment on liquid oxygen?
When was liquid oxygen developed for commercial use?
What welding process was demonstrated in 1901?
What component of water is more soluble than nitrogen?
Upon what chemical characteristic is oxygen's solubility dependent?
How much oxygen is found is a liter of fresh water under normal conditions?
In what type of water does oxygen dissolve more slowly?
How much more oxygen dissolves at 0 degrees C than at 20 degrees C?
Where does oxygen rank by mass in the planet's biosphere?
How is oxygen ranked as abundant in the universe?
How much of the sun is made up of oxygen?
Where by mass is oxygen a major part?
How is oxygen produced from carbon dioxide on the other planets of the solar system?
By what century did researchers see that they could liquefy air?
By what means were scientists able to liquefy air?
What scientist told the French Academy of Sciences that he had found how to liquefy oxygen?
What minor amount of liquid oxygen was produced by early French experimenters?
On what date was oxygen liquefied in a stable form?
What celestial object eluded efforts to measure oxygen?
What molecule does the Sun have in higher proportion than Earth?
What spacecraft contained data to determine the oxygen content of the Sun?
What type of process was involved the the depletion of the Sun's oxygen 16?
Before the formation of which planet, did Sol lose oxygen 16?
What is the name for a form of oxygen in which electrons are paired?
To what is singlet oxygen more reactive?
In what process is singlet oxygen usually formed?
By what process is singlet oxygen made in the tropophere?
What objects in organisms absorb singlet oxygen to prevent harm?
What group of scientists seek to measure the amounts of oxygen in marine animals?
About what weather feature do paleoclimatologists want information?
How much heavier is oxygen 18 than oxygen 16?
What form of oxygen do marine animals acquire in greater amounts during cooler climatic conditions?
During what type of climate is oxygen 18 in seawater at higher levels?
At what wavelength do the spectrophotometric bands peak?
To monitor what event would measuring radiance from vegetation provide information?
From where would scientists like measure vegetation radiance?
On what scale would scientists show measurements of vegetation?
What style of sensing do scientist like to use to measure global radiance?
What magnetic character do triplet O2 have?
In experiments, a bridge of what element can be built between poles of a magnet?
The spin of what can produce a magnetic effect to oxygen molecules?
What kind of field is necessary to produce a magnet effect in oxygen molecules?
What device is used to test the magnetic attractions involved in liquid oxygen?
What do the reactive forms of oxygen produce in organisms?
For what purpose do organisms make peroxide and superoxide?
Against what does reactive oxygen play in plant defense?
To what type of organisms is oxygen toxic?
When did O2 begin to acculturate in the atmosphere?
At what temperature will oxygen condense?
What is the clarity of liquid oxygen?
What substance is used to make high quality liquid O2?
What element is used as a coolant in the process of making liquid oxygen?
From what type of materials must liquid oxygen be separated?
Where on Earth is free oxygen found?
At what temperatures is O2 more soluble?
Why do polar water bodies support a higher amount of life?
Pollution of water by nitrates and phosphates will encourage the growth of what?
What measurement do scientists used to determine the quality of water?
When did photosynthetic organisms evolve on Earth?
During which eon did free oxygen begin appearing in quantity?
At first, what did oxygen and iron combine to form?
How long ago did oxygen reach 10% of its present level?
When did oxygen begin to move from the oceans to the atmosphere?
What produces the high levels of oxygen on Earth?
What type of process is the oxygen cycle?
In how many places is oxygen stored in its cycle?
What process is responsible for the planet's oxygen content?
What does photosynthesis release into the Earth's atmosphere?
What mechanism can be used to make oxygen?
What percentage of oxygen will a zeolite sieve produce?
While producing oxygen, what gas does a zeolite sieve absorb?
What type of technology is the non organic separating of gases?
How much is the sieve method of gas production used?
Electrolysis of what can be used to produce oxygen and hydrogen?
What does the electrolysis of water produce?
What type of electric current is needed for electrolysis?
What is the source of oxygen production through electrocatalytic means?
What other catalysts can be used to produce oxygen?
As a euphoric how is oxygen used in bars?
What is the effect on humans of oxygen?
What do professional athletes seek to boost from breathing oxygen?
What is the most likely effect of breathing oxygen?
What type of exercise does research show receives a boost in performance from oxygen?
What device is used to treat various conditions such as carbon monoxide poisoning?
What does increased oxygen concentrations in the patient's lungs displace?
To what pathogen that causes gas gangrene is oxygen poisonous?
What occurs after a dive in which a diver decompresses too quickly?
What medical treatment is used to benefit patients with hearth and lung disorders?
By decreasing resistance to blood flow in the lungs, what organ's workload can be eased?
What medical treatment is used to increase oxygen uptake in a patient?
In what process is the uptake from oxygen necessary?
What does oxygen therapy promote the body to take up?
What characteristic of oxygen causes it to form bonds with other elements?
What is usual form of oxygen bound compounds?
What is the mineral wustite?
What does oxygen cause to form on metals?
What does the film of oxide on metals delay?
What event would necessitate airline passengers to need a supplemental supply of oxygen?
What is the type of oxygen production for emergency oxygen in airlines?
What type of reaction is present in the emergency oxygen generator of an airplane?
What gas does the airline exothermic reaction produce?
What do oxygen tanks, cryogenics, and chemical compounds serve as for oxygen?
By what means is bulk oxygen shipped?
In what state is oxygen shipped in bulk?
In what form is oxygen transported in smaller containers?
What type of organization would need large quantities of pure oxygen?
What type of compounds such as acetone,contain oxygen?
In what group of compounds is oxygen a necessary part?
What function do compounds like phenol and acetone serve in the manufacture of many other substances?
In what compound is oxygen part of a ring arrangement?
How are the compounds that contain oxygen considered in commerce?
In what type of molecules are oxygen found?
How many biomolecules contain no oxygen?
Which organic compounds contain the greatest amount of oxygen by mass?
Besides fats, fatty acids, and amino acids,what other organic compounds contain oxygen?
In what calcium containing body part is oxygen a part?
What health condition can deep sea diving cause?
To what can the use of prolonged breathing of oxygen at 60 kPa lead?
Pressures greater than what can lead to convulsions?
What is the most feared condition that divers want to avoid?
What physical condition can acute oxygen toxicity cause?
Why is breathing oxygen in space craft not dangerous to health?
What is the oxygen partial pressure of space suits?
How much of normal is the oxygen breathed in space suits?
How much damage does breathing oxygen in space conditions cause?
What si the comparison to sea level with the oxygen level in space suits?
When can oxygen gas produce a toxic condition?
At what point does oxygen toxicity begin to happen?
To what is 50 kilopascals equal?
What medical appliance can be a concern for oxygen toxicity?
What percentage of oxygen is usually supplied by a medical mask?
When did the 1973 oil crisis begin?
What was the price of oil in March of 1974?
When was the second oil crisis?
What was another term used for the oil crisis?
Who proclaimed the oil embargo?
Why did the European nations and Japan separated themselves from United States during the crisis?
How did the Nixon administration negotiate with the uncooperative countries?
On what date did Henry Kissinger negotiate an Israeli troop withdrawal from the Sinai Peninsula?
When did the Arab oil producers lift the embargo?
When did the United States withdraw from the Bretton Woods Accord?
What does it mean when currencies are left to "float?"
Why was there a depreciation of the industrialized nations dollars?
When did oil start getting priced in the terms of gold?
Why did oil start getting priced in terms of gold?
From 1947 to 1967, how much did the price of oil increase?
When did OPEC start to readjust oil prices?
When did oil finally returned to its Bretton Woods levels?
The price of oil is usually a stable commodity until when?
When did Syria and Egypt launch a surprise attack on Israel?
Who was the world's second largest oil producer?
How many times more did the other nations have to pay for oil after the surprise attack?
Which oil producer is a close ally of the United States?
Why did the Shah of Iran gave an interview?
Why did OPEC raise the price of oil to $5.11?
When did they raise the price of oil to $5.11?
Why did the oil ministers agree to a cut in oil production?
How much was the emergency aid to Israel?
Why did OPEC block oil deliveries to the United States?
How much did Saudi Arabia spend on spreading Wahhabism?
Which group benefited from the funds distributed by the religious charity, al-Haramain Foundation?
Some of the income went to the purchase of arms which exacerbated political tension especially in which area?
What is one of the reason that underdeveloped nations received aid from the oil income?
What is a fundamentalist interpretation of Islam called?
What is one of the reason that US production has been held responsible for recessions and lower economic growth?
US is concerned about confrontation of the Middle East with which other country?
Scholars stated that there was already an existing settlement between 2 parties prior to which date?
Interest groups and government agencies that were concerned with energy were no match for who?
What has a negative influence over the US economy?
On an international level, which industry's competitive positions is affected?
Which problem consists of both inflationary and deflationary impacts?
The oil crisis caused oil companies to increase oil supplies in which area?
How long does it take for new areas to have significant oil production?
Which country faced a complete embargo in the EEC?
The UK and France had non interruptions in their oil supply as they did not allow which country to use their airfield?
Which country is a traditional ally of Israel?
Harold WInston's supported which country's during its six day war?
Who wanted Israel to withdraw from its border?
Which country is not badly hit by the embargo?
What caused UK to have an oil crisis in its own country?
When did the series of strikes happen?
Name one country that banned boating, driving and flying on Sundays.
Which country rationed gasoline and heating gas?
What made the oil crisis worse in the US?
Why are newly discovered oil sold at a higher price?
Why was old oil withdrawn from the market?
How was scarcity managed in many countries?
Who is the first administrator of the Federal Energy Office?
When was he elected by Nixon?
Why was this short termed organization created?
According to the AAA, what is the percentage of the gas stations that ran out of gasoline?
What is the speed limit set to reduce consumption?
What is the name of the law which imposed the speed limit?
Which president ended the Emergency Energy Conservation Act?
When was the National Highway Designated Act signed?
When was the cabinet-level Energy Department created?
What was the catalyst that created greater interest in renewable resources?
There is criticism that the energy policies are expensive quick fixes that ignore which facts?
Who backed policies that have solutions that sound good but have poor prospects?
Which country was thinking about going to war to forcibly take Middle Eastern oil fields?
Which country was worried that the US would invade the Middle East?
How long would the invasion of the Middle East have to last in order to develop renewable resources?
Who would the occupation alienate?
Which country is the most dependent on Arab oil?
How much imported oil came from the Middle East?
To force Japan to be more involved in the crisis, what did Saudi and Kuwaiti government do?
When did Japan release a statement to tell Israelis to withdraw from the Palestine?
When was Japan accepted as an Arab-friendly state?
Which country's invasion show the insecurity of the Middle East?
Which countries became dependent on US's security assurance to threats?
Which country's arms purchase from the US became 5 times more than Israel?
When did the Shah kingdom start to collapse?
When did the Wahhabi seized the Grand Mosque in Mecca?
Which sized cars were the least demanded cars in the crisis?
Which country's cars became more highly sought after as they were more fuel efficient?
What type of engines does the American car typically have?
Which country's imports became the de facto mass market leaders?
When did Honda, Toyota and Nissan open US assembly plants?
Name a larger car that Toyota came up with as buyers lamented the small sized compacts?
Name an extra that was added to the production of the compacts.
Name a luxury division of Toyota.
Name a type of Toyota compact trucks?
What did Mitsubishi rename its Forte to?
Mazda, Mitsubishi and Isuzu joined partnership with which American car company?
When American car companies rolled out with their domestic replacement cars, which policy ended?
Why did GM, Ford and Chrysler introduced fuel-efficient and small cars to the US market?
How many passengers can the Ford Fiesta accommodate?
By which year did the American cars mpg start to improve?
Name a luxury model that became popular in the mid-1970s.
Which full-sized model cars were not popular?
By which year did full sized American cars shrink to be smaller?
By which year did Chrysler ended its full sized luxury model?
Which car shows the DOT's revision of categories?
When was OPEC production of oil being surpassed?
Which year did the price of oil drop to $10 per barrel?
Why did Saudi Arabia try to increase production, and reduce profits for high cost producers?
In 1979, during the oil crisis, what was the highest price of oil?
What project put the first Americans into space?
What program was created to carry out these projects and missions?
What year did the first manned Apollo flight occur?
What President is credited with the original notion of putting Americans in space?
How many people were on the project that followed Project Mercury?
How long did Project Apollo run?
What program helped develop space travel techniques that Project Apollo used?
Who did the U.S. collaborate with on an Earth orbit mission in 1975?
What space station supported three manned missions in 1973-1974?
In what year did the Apollo 1 cabin fire occur?
What type of launch was happening during the Apollo 1 incident?
What forced the cancellations of three future landings?
How many of the remaining launches were successful?
What happened to Apollo 13?
What was the first spacecraft to orbit another celestial body?
What Apollo mission was the sixth moon landing?
How many kgs of moon rocks did the program bring back?
What other areas did the Apollo missions help spur advancements in?
How many people could the Mercury capsule hold?
How many people could Apollo be projected to hold?
Who named the Apollo missions?
What was the eventual final goal of the Apollo projects?
When was the Apollo project conceived?
In what year was the Apollo program announced?
Who led the in house design studies for NASA?
How many study contracts were awarded on October 25th?
Who was the deputy administrator of NASA in 1960?
Who was elected President in November 1960?
Against what country was Kennedy promising superiority over?
What was President Kennedy put off by regarding the space program?
Who was NASA's administrator?
What was the term Kennedy used to show that America was falling behind the Soviet Union due to inactivity in space programs?
Who was the first person in space?
From what country did the first person in space come from?
How many days after Gagarin's flight did the US House Committee on Science and Astronautics meet?
What did President Kennedy do in response to the Soviet flight in regards of America's program?
What month and day did Kennedy message his vice president about the status of the program?
Who was Kennedy's vice president?
How long did it take Johnson to respond to Kennedy?
What was the general consensus Johnson came to regarding America's progress on going to space and reaching a position of leadership?
Who originally led the Space Task Group?
Where was the Space Task Group located?
Where was the Manned Spacecraft Center located?
What university donated the land for the Manned Spacecraft Center?
In what state were the original launching facilities for missions?
Where would the Launch Operations Center be located, as more land was needed for a bigger rocket?
Who conducted the construction of the new center?
Kurt H. Debus was appointed what position for the Launch Operations Center?
President Johnson issued an executive order to rename the Launch Operations Center after whom?
How many launch pads were originally planned?
What spacecraft was tested in two vacuum chambers to simulate atmospheric pressure?
How high in altitude in feet could the vacuum chambers simulate?
How big was the Vertical Assembly Building?
Who did Webb recruit for better project management?
When was Mueller announced and appointed as Deputy Associate Administrator?
Who was Mueller replaced as Associate Administrator?
The administrators and directors Gilruth, von Braun and Debus reported to who?
What did Mueller have experience with prior to joining the space program?
From what military branch did Mueller recruit managers from?
Who did Mueller recruit to be a manager for NASA projects on a loaned situation?
How long did Phillips manage the Apollo missions?
What was Phillips official title for NASA?
What did the engineers fear would be difficult in space due to it never being attempted in Earth orbit?
In what year was direct ascent the primary mission focus at NASA?
Who was the Associate Administrator that Houbolt spoke with?
Who led the committee established by Seaman?
When was this committee by Seaman established?
Which NASA faction came around first to support the LOR?
Who was hired to be the deputy director of the Office of Manned Space Flight?
Which NASA location came around last to the idea of the LOR?
Who was Kennedy's science adviser that opposed manned spacecraft flights?
Who did Wiesner hire to monitor and second guess NASA's decisions?
Where did Golovin work prior to joining the "Space Vehicle Panel"?
When was the announcement for the LOR made after being delayed?
Who was keeping pressure and showing disagreements for the LOR, even in front of the President?
What did Wiesner shout out in front of the press during a presentation by von Braun?
What does the acronym LEM stand for?
Who was announced as the LEM contractor in November 1962?
What was the advantage that the LOR method produced in the event of a spacecraft failure?
What Apollo mission was this LOR method used and needed?
What did the Lunar Module provide to help get the Apollo 13 home safely?
In what year was the Lunar Module (LM) dropped because it wasn't seen as useful?
What was the shape that Faget designed for the Apollo command module?
What does the acronym CSM stand for?
How many men would the LM take to the lunar surface and return to the CSM?
How many people was the CM designed to carry in the end?
Where was the CM intended to land upon re entering the Earth's atmosphere?
The outside of the CM was covered in what kind of material?
What was incorporated to help slow the CM's decent back to Earth?
How much did the CM weigh in kgs?
What helped support the Command Module with a propulsion engine and propellants?
What type of antenna was used for communication on the lunar flights?
What happened to the SM upon reentry to the atmosphere?
How much did the initial version of the SM weigh in pounds?
What was carried on extended lunar missions?
Who was rewarded with building the CSM?
How much thrust was estimated for the translunar flight?
In what year was a program study done on the modules labeled as Block I and Block II?
What was the name of the launch vehicle for NASA, which North American Aviation designed the second stage of?
How many astronauts was the LM intended to take from orbit of the moon to the surface of the moon?
Was the LM intended to return to Earth at all?
The initial LM weighed how much in kgs?
For about how long would the extended LM allow a surface stay on the moon?
Who had worked on the Saturn series even before the Apollo program began officially?
From where was von Braun transferred to go to NASA?
When was the decision made to replace the Nova rockets with the Saturn V?
What did the initial first stages of the Saturn I tests carry?
When did the launches of boilerplate CSMs occur in orbit?
What did the last few of the boilerplate CSM launches carry with them?
What did Pegasus satellites measure to propose the safety of the environment in space and on the moon?
What was the name of the upgraded Saturn I called?
How much did the second stage increase thrust by with the integration of the S-IVB-200?
The S-IVB-200 was used in what stage of the Saturn V?
How much weight could the Saturn IB send into space with this amount of thrust?
What was intended to take a CSM and LM, fully fueled, to the moon?
What was the diameter of the Saturn V in feet?
How many stages did the Saturn V end up having?
What did the second stage in the Saturn V end up doing?
From what project groups were the Apollo astronauts selected?
How many Apollo missions were manned by the previous Mercury and Gemini veterans?
Who was the first NASA scientist in space?
Which mission did Schmitt finally land on the moon?
Apollo 17 was significant for what reason?
How many astronauts visited space on missions and were rewarded for their efforts?
What type of medal did NASA give the astronauts who visited space and the moon?
In what year were the Distinguished Service Medals awarded to Grissom, White, and Chaffee?
What happened during the Apollo 7 test mission to elicit them a lesser version of the DSM?
From what mission and onward were the DSMs awarded?
In what year were two Block I CSMs launched?
How high in miles did the first block, AS-201, reach when launched?
How far did the second block, AS-202, travel downrange in km?
What did these flights test on the CM?
How many people were on the test flight of the AS-206?
What were the astronauts wearing during the dual mission AS-278?
What was originally on the spacesuits prior to the clear "fishbowl" helmet?
What type of undergarment, if any, was included into the Apollo spacesuit?
What did the LMP acronym stand for regarding the Block II launch positions?
Who selected the first Apollo crew?
For which project did Deke Slayton work with before becoming Director of Flight Crew Operations?
What year did Slayton select the first Apollo crew?
Who was the original pilot for the first Apollo mission?
What crew did Eisele eventually get relocated to after having surgery and not making the first mission?
What happened to the AS-205 mission originally?
In what month and year was the AS-258 scheduled to launch?
What was the dual mission AS-258 a combination of?
Where were Schirra, Eisele and Cunningham relocated to after different astronauts were selected for the AS-258 mission?
Who was appointed to head a team to find the problems North America had regarding manned space flight?
What was the nickname given to the team Samuel Phillips was appointed to?
What year was the first manned flight with the Lunar Module scheduled?
Who appointed Samuel Phillips to man the tiger team to find answers?
Where did Apollo 1's crew conduct tests at Kennedy Space Center?
Who was the main crew of Apollo 1, of which they named themselves?
What was a plugs-out test done to simulate on the LC-34?
What other location did Apollo 1 test at besides Kennedy Space Center?
What was the first problem astronauts encountered during the plugs-out test?
When did the very first plugs-out test occur?
What happened during the plugs-out test during the delay for the spacesuit odor?
What happened to the crew onboard during the plugs-out test?
What type of atmosphere helped fuel the fire throughout the cabin?
Who kept tabs on the accident review board that NASA created?
What was found to be at fault for the fire in the cabin on Apollo 1 regarding the CM design?
Who ended up replacing Joseph Francis Shea as ASPO Manager?
How soon after the cabin fire incident did NASA create its accident review board?
What type of mixture was created to replace the pure oxygen atmosphere inside the cabin?
What type of materials inside the cabin were removed to help prevent more fire hazards in the future?
The door on the Block II design was eventually replaced with what kind of model?
What eventually happened to the Block I program after the incident?
Crew members were required to wear what type of space suit during testing after the incident?
What type of missions were approved by Mueller after the incident?
What had to happen to each mission before they would continue on to the next mission?
Since NASA didn't know how many attempts each test would end up requiring, what did they use instead of numbers for the trials?
What was the technical name of the first unmanned Saturn V flight, Apollo 4?
What was one thing that was specifically tested on the Apollo 4 test launch regarding the CM?
When was Apollo 6, or AS-502, tested?
What was cancelled by NASA after the Apollo 6 testing, after deeming the Saturn V ready to hold men?
Which Apollo was the first testing of the LM, unmanned, in Earth's orbit?
From what pad was Apollo 5 launched from?
Who initially wanted more unmanned testing done regarding the LM?
Was the testing of the LM during Apollo 5 a failure or a success?
What was the nickname for the test where, during abort mode, the ascent engine was started and fired?
What type of Saturn was originally going to be used for Apollo 8?
What spacecraft did the Soviets use to send animals to space and around the moon's orbit?
On what day were images of the moon's surface transmitted to Earth via television images?
What did Low suggest using Apollo 8 for instead of simply orbiting the Earth's surface?
What did the Soviets intend to use in spacecraft after the success of Zond 5?
From what project did the Apollo 11 crew consist entirely of?
In what month and year did the Apollo 11 mission occur?
What did the astronauts on the moon send back to Earth live via signals?
Who were the astronauts aboard the Apollo 11 mission?
What day did the Apollo 11 crew return to Earth?
Charles Conrad and Alan Bean were on what spacecraft to the moon?
Which lunar probe was near the Apollo 12 crew's landing site?
What did the crew of Apollo 12 do with parts of the Surveyor they landed near after photographing them?
What damaged the color TV camera that Apollo 12 had taken into space?
What would the latter Apollo missions carry to the moon to increase exploration?
What was redesigned to allow better maneuverability in the LRV?
How many more landing sites for the Apollo missions did NASA have planned?
How long would the astronauts be project to be able to stay on the moon for in the latter missions?
What would have to be increased regarding the LM and CSM for the last five missions?
What happened to the Apollo 13 crew to force them to use the LM as a "life boat" as it had been designed?
Along with one veteran, what other two types of crew could be included in lieu of veterans after the successful landings of Apollo 11 and 12?
What happened to the Apollo program in for the rest of 1970 after the incident regarding Apollo 13?
What was redesigned during the Apollo program being grounded during 1970?
What month and year was Apollo 13 launched?
What Apollo mission was first cancelled due to not being needed to build the Skylab in space, as it was pre-built on the ground?
What happened to NASA's budget after the first successful moon landing?
After Apollo missions 18 and 19 were cancelled, what happened to the Saturn Vs that were never used?
What year was the decision made to cancel Apollo missions 18 and 19?
How did the rocks on the moon compare to those on Earth?
How old were some of the oldest rock samples found on the moon?
What new component was found in certain rocks from the moon?
What was the name of the rock found during the Apollo 15 mission that KREEP was discovered in?
As the moon has no atmosphere, what is prevalant in many moon rock samples brought back from Apollo missions?
What do a great majority of rocks sampled from the moon show?
What is impact melt that some samples of moon rocks show?
How much was NASA's procured spending on the Apollo project estimated to be at in 2005 after inflation?
How many Saturn V rockets were produced by NASA during the Apollo project?
How much was the Apollo project estimated to have cost from 1959 to 1973, the length of the program?
What did NASA name the series seeking up to 30 more flights to Earth's orbit?
What did the acronym AAP stand for?
What planet was named for a fly-by mission by an empty S-IVB?
When was the Skylab launched?
Was the Skylab assembled on Earth's surface or in space?
When was Skylab's last crew on the station before it re-entered Earth's atmosphere?
The Skylab had what type of equipment onboard that was supposed to be used in a different mission?
Which NASA orbiter photographed evidence of each site on the moon that a manned Apollo mission landing occurred?
The flags on the moon left by the U.S. manned Apollo missions are all still standing save for which mission's flag?
Do the U.S. flags on the moon still have their original coloring or were they faded due to the Sun?
What crew sent the first ever live images of the Earth and Moon to earth?
From what Bible book did the crew of Apollo 8 read from during this stream of images?
How much of the population of Earth ended up seeing the images of the Earth and the Moon?
After an eventful and tiring year for the world during 1968, what type of ending to the year did the images from space provide?
What type of camera was used to record the Moon landing?
Was this footage compatible or incompatible with live broadcast TV formats?
What happened to prompt NASA to record over archived magnetic tapes?
What did NASA record over the older archived tapes?
Who worked later on to find these missing magnetic tapes that had data stored on them?
Who compiled the original surviving Apollo 11 landing data?
Were the tapes able to be restored and processed without destroying historical legitimacy or did some aspects of the tapes lose legitimacy?
What types of recordings at Johnson Space Center were used to help restore the original tapes?
Which company was tasked with trying to restore the original tapes?
Were the restored tapes able to have color added to them to enhance the picture or did they remain black and white?
What are the three sources of European Union law?
What is European Union Law?
What are the main sources of primary law?
What are the secondary sources of primary law?
What are the two bodies that make up the European Union's legislature?
What is European Union law?
What effect does European Union law have on laws of member states?
What are the three sources of European Union law?
What are the main legislative bodies of the European Union?
What are the three main sources of European Union law?
What are the main sources of primary law?
What is the legislature of the European Union comprised of?
How many sources of European Union law are there?
Who applies European Union law?
Who can enforce the European Union law when member states provide lesser rights?
Under what treaty can the European Commission take action against member states?
What is the highest court in the European Union?
What is one of the supplementary sources of European Union law?
Which two courts apply European Union law?
Under what treaty can the European Commission take action against member states?
Which court is the highest court in the European Union?
What is one supplementary source of European Union law?
By whom is European Law applied by?
Who can enforce European Union law?
What is the highest court in European Union law?
What are some supplementary sources of European Union law?
What are the two primary constitutional sources of the European Union?
Who has the power to initiate legislation within the European Union?
Who elects the members of the European Parliament?
What court is able to interpret European Union law?
What governing body appoints commissioners and the board of European Central Bank?
Which treaty provides that the European Union law be applied to metropolitan territories of member states?
Are there any regions where the Treaty of European Union excludes from jurisdiction?
What powers does the Court of Justice of the European Union have in regards to treaties?
Under what instances can individuals rely on primary law in the Court of Justice of European Union?
When do treaties apply?
What are the core treaties that the primary law of the EU consists of?
What are some examples of territories where a member state is responsible for external relations?
When do the stated Treaties apply?
Who is suited to interpret the Treaties?
How did the principle treaties that form the European Union begin?
Which two treaties provided more formal institutions of the European Union?
In what years did Spain and Portugal join the European Union?
In 1972, did Norway end up joining the European Union?
Which country in 1985 signed a treaty to give it special status?
What caused the need for principal Treaties that ended up forming the EU?
When year was the Maastrich Treaty signed?
When was the Single European Act made?
When did Denmark join the EU?
When did Greenland sign a Treaty granting them special status?
When was there an attempt to reform the law of the EU?
What two country's referendums curtailed a constitution for Europe?
How similar was the Lisbon Treaty to the constitutional treaty?
What type of treaty was the Lisbon Treaty?
Is the Lisbon Treaty one that would alter existing treaties or replace them?
What reform was attempted following the Nice Treaty?
What was an additional projected effect of the attempted reform?
Which caused the reform to never come into force?
What treaty took the place of constitutional treaty?
What is the main executive body of the EU?
Who is the sole governing authority capable of initiating legislative proposals?
Which authority figure is designated to schedule and set the work of the EU?
For each of the 28 member states, how many Commissioner's are represented for each one?
Who is the current President and the High Representative for Foreign and Security Policy?
Which article of the Treaty on European Union states that Commissioners should be completely independent and not take instructions from any Government?
Who sets the agenda for the EU's work?
How are decisions made on behave of the EU made?
Which country refused to content to changes in the Treaty of Lisbon 2007?
Who are the un-elected subordinates of member state governments?
What commission was censured in 1999, and paved the way for Commissioners to abuse their power?
Did the European Court of Justice rule the defendant in the case of Commission v. Edith Cresson broke any laws?
Who found that there was a developed culture of Commissioner's who lacked responsibility?
Who appoints the board of the European Central Bank?
Can the President of the Council vote on important matters related to the European Central Bank?
When was the Santer Commission censured by Parliament?
The censuring of the Santer Commission resulted in which main case?
Who found that a culture had developed where few Commissioners had any sense of responsibility?
The corruption found by the Committee of Independent Experts resulted to the creation of what office?
When did the European Anti-Fraud Office investigate John Dalli?
Which two governing bodies have legislative veto power?
What can't Parliament do that causes equality and democracy to be deficient?
How often do Parliament elections take place?
How much of a voting majority must there be to effectively censure the Commission?
What two bodies must the Parliament go through first to pass legislation?
Which entity has a monopoly on initiating legislation?
Which entities have powers of amendment and veto during the legislative process?
When did the first direct elections take place?
How often do Parliament elections take place?
Which party is currently the largest among political party lines?
The legislative body, the Council, are made up of what type of individuals?
Who is currently the President of the Council?
How are the votes weighted to ensure that smaller states aren't dominated by larger ones?
What are the total number of votes to be counted during the voting process?
Currently, how many votes out of the 352 total votes are needed for a majority?
Which entity is the secondary legislative body?
How often does the European Council meet?
How many votes in total does the Council have?
What is defined as the majority vote?
What type of vote must the Parliament have to either block or suggest changes to the Commission's proposals?
What type of vote must the Council pass in order to approve of any changes recommended by Parliament?
Is it easier or harder to change EU law than stay the same?
What articles state that unless conferred, powers remain with member states?
Within the EU, which court believes they have the final word deciding on EU's competence?
Which TFEU article defines the ordinary legislative procedure that applies for majority of EU acts?
What can block a legislation?
Which articles state that powers stay with member states unless they've been conferred?
What entity is created if the three different institutions cannot come to a consensus at any stage?
Which branch of the EU has had the most influence on the development of EU law?
What is the main judicial body of the EU?
How many total judges are there in the EU?
Under which courts is most EU law applied?
What is the CJEU's duty?
How is the judicial branch of the EU an important factor in the development of EU law?
What is the current main judicial body of the EU?
What entity deals with EU staff issues?
How long is one term for an elected president of the CJEU?
What is the CJEU's duty?
If there is a conflict between EU law and national law, which law take precedence?
What was the reason the Italian Constitutional court gave that resulted in Mr. Costa losing his his claim against ENEL?
What were the years two Regulations that conflicted with an Italian law originate in the Simmenthal SpA case?
Which entities have had to develop principles dedicated to conflict resolution between laws of different systems?
When did Costa v ENEL take place?
Which court argued that the Treaty of Rome did not prevent energy nationalism?
What do all member states agree takes precedence over national law?
What issues do member states say the Court of Justice does not have the final say on?
When was the European Communities Act created?
What does the EU's legitimacy rest on?
In what cases can the EU not override German law?
Which type of law makes EU institutions and its member states follow the law?
During what year were citizens or corporations said to not be able to bring claims against other non state parties?
Which actions by EU institutions can be subject to judicial review?
Which type of law concerns the EU's governance structure?
In which case was it held that the provisions of the treaties are directly effective if they are clear, unconditional, and don't require further action by EU or national authorities?
Which TEFU article states that no quantitative restrictions can be placed on trade?
What type of company is Van Gend en Loos?
What are EU Regulations essentially the same as in the case mentioned?
What generally does not allow citizens to sue other citizens?
How many paid holiday days does the Working Time directive require workers to have each year?
How many paid holiday days do most member states require?
When did the three Advocate Generals argue that Directives should create rights and duties for all citizens?
What happens first if a Directive's deadline for implementation is not met?
What happens secondly if a Directive's deadline is not met?
How long did Ms Kucukdeveci work for Swedex Gmbh & Co KG before she was dismissed?
Which company did Mrs Foster work for?
At what age did British Gas plc force their workers to retire?
Which courts have a duty to interpret domestic law as far as possible?
What does the First Company Law Directive article 11 require?
What did the Italian government fail to do in Francovich v Italy?
How much money was Francovich allowed to claim from the Italian goverment in damages?
Which entity developed the principles of European Union Law?
What are some of the accepted general principles of European Union law?
How long has Proportionality been recognized as one of the general principles of EU law?
Where is the principle of proportionality recognized in the EC treaty?
Which measure must be adopted when there is a choice between several?
How long has the concept of legal certainty been recognized as one of the general principles by the EU law?
Which laws mentioned predate EU law?
What must the adoption of laws which will have legal effect in the EU have?
In what does the doctrine of legitimate expectations have roots?
Where is the European Court of justice likely to get inspiration from?
The European Court of Justice cannot uphold measures that are incompatible with what?
How many original treaties establishing the EU protected fundamental rights?
Which entities were originally concerned with preventing violation of human rights?
When was the European Convention on Human Rights established?
What other entity was established at the same time as the European Convention on Human Rights?
When did the European Council task an entity with drafting a European Charter of Human Rights?
When was the Lisbon Treaty established?
What charter has become an important aspect of EU law?
After the Lisbon treaty, the Charter and the Convention now co-exist under what?
What entity enforces the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union?
The Social Chapter is a chapter of what treaty?
What year was the Treaty of Amsterdam created?
When was the basis for the Social Chapter developed?
How many general principles does the Social Charter declare?
How many pieces of legislation has the Social Charter become the basis for?
How many member states adopted the Social Charter in 1989?
Which member state declined to sign the Social Charter?
What title was the Social Charter set to be included into the Maastricht treaty under?
What year was the Maastricht treaty signed?
What lead to the UK to subscribe to the agreement on Social Policy?
When did the UK formally subscribe to the Agreement on Social Policy?
Which directive mentioned was created in 1994?
When was the Parental Leave directive created?
What did the Works Council Directive require?
Which countries were the European Coal and Steel Community agreement between?
What year was the ECSC agreement established?
What did article 65 of the ECSC ban?
Which article made provisions for concentrations or mergers and the abuse of a dominant position by companies?
When were competition rules included in the Treaty of Rome?
In which article does the Treaty of Lisbon prohibit anti-competitive agreements?
What does Article 102 of the Treaty of Lisbon prohibit?
Which articles state that the member states' rights to deliver public services may not be obstructed?
Which article allows the European Council to govern mergers between firms?
When was the concept of a social market economy introduced into EU law?
How long has free movement and trade been central to European development?
Breaking down barriers to trade and enhancing the free movement of goods is meant to reduce what?
What do the Treaties generally limit?
What entity has taken the view that the goals of free trade are underpinned by the aims to improve people's well being?
What helps the process of free movement of goods?
What did did article 34 discriminate against in Procureur du Roi v Dassonville?
Article 34 meant states could be responsible for what?
In which case were French vigilantes sabotaging shipments of Spanish Strawberries?
In Schmidberger v Austria, the Court of Justice came to the conclusion that Austria didn't infringe upon article 34 by failing to ban a what?
What is the minimum percent of alcohol content a German law requires all spirits and liqueurs to have?
Which country did Rewe-Zentrale AG wish to import from?
Which year was the case Commission v Italy that dealt with cocoa products?
All Italian chocolate is made from what alone?
In the 2009 Commission v Italy, case, the Court of Justice held that an Italian low prohibiting what infringed article 34?
Which two importers claimed that under a French competition law, they were prevented from selling Picon beer under wholesale price?
The aim of the French competition law was to do what?
In which case did the Court of Justice review Swedish bans on advertising to young children under 12?
Under which Directive did the EU harmonize restrictions on restrictions on marketing and advertising?
What have the Treaties sought to enable since its foundation?
Which entity focused upon the free movement of workers?
What was free movement increasingly based on?
In which case did a German man claim the right to live in Netherlands where he was a volunteer plumber?
What did the Court of Justice say Steymann was entitled to?
Which articles of the Free Movement of Workers Regulation set out the primary provisions on equal treatment of workers?
Which Belgian footballer claimed that he should be allowed to transfer from one football club to another when his contract was fulfilled?
What language did the Court of Justice accept to be required to teach in a Dublin college in Groner v Minister for Education?
In which case was a Dutch national not entitled to continue receiving benefits when he moved to Belgium?
In the case Geven v Land Nordrhein-Westfalen, how many hours was the Dutch woman in question working in Germany?
What has lately been being viewed as a fundamental status of member state nationals by the Court of Justice?
What has having an EU Citizenship increased?
In which case did the Court state that Austria was not allowed to hold places in Austrian schools exclusively for Austrian students?
What has the Court required to be more accessible?
Which Treaty protects the freedom of establishment and the freedom to provide services?
In Gebhard v Consiglio...Milano, the requirements to be registered in Milan before being able to practice law would be allowed under what conditions?
In which case did the Court of Justice state that refusal to admit a lawyer to the Belgian bar because he did not have Belgian heritage wasn't able to be justified?
Which TFEU article states that states are exempt from infringing on rights of establishment when they exercise official authority?
In which case did the Court of Justice hold that requiring Italian lawyers to comply with maximum tariffs unless there was an agreement with a client was not a restriction?
In which year did a toxic waste spill from a European ship prompt the Commission to look into legislation against waste?
At the time, countries such as Spain didn't have a crime against what?
When did the Court of Justice rule that the Commission could only propose that there must be some criminal sanctions?
When was the competence for the Union to create criminal sentences for ecological crimes contested?
The freedom to provide services under TFEU article 56 applies to who?
Why was the Dutch lawyer who moved to Belgium while advising a client in a social society case told he couldn't continue?
What did the Court of Justice reason were controlled in all member states in Josemans v Burgemeester van Maastricht?
What did the Dutch health authorities regard as unnecessary in Geraets-Smits v Stichting Ziekenfonds?
Which newspaper's parent company could not evade tax by shifting its residence to the Netherlands?
How much capital did UK law require to start a company?
How much capital did Danish law require to start a company?
What could justify restrictions on freedom of establishment?
In which case did the Court of Justice hold that a German court couldn't deny a Dutch building company the right to enforce a contract based in Germany?
Which name is also used to describe the Amazon rainforest in English?
How many square kilometers of rainforest is covered in the basin?
How many nations control this region in total?
How many nations contain "Amazonas" in their names?
What percentage does the Amazon represents in rainforests on the planet?
What is the Dutch word for the Amazon rainforest?
What rainforest covers the majority of the Amazon basin in South America?
In what country can most of the Amazon rainforest be found?
The Amazon rainforest makes up what amount of Earth's rainforests?
How many species of trees can be found in the Amazon rainforest?
What kind of forest is the Amazon rainforest?
How many square kilometers is the Amazon Basin?
How many nations are within the Amazon Basin?
Which nation contains the majority of the amazon forest?
What is the estimate for the amount of tree species in the amazon tropical rain forest?
Which type of climate may have allowed the rainforest to spread across the continent?
What has allowed for the Savanna region to expand into the tropics?
During what time did the rainforest spanned a narrow band?
When did it retract to a inland formation?
Did the rainforest managed to thrive during the glacial periods?
What may have caused rainforests to grow across South America?
How many degrees south did the Amazon rainforest reach from 66-34 Mya?
What has caused savanna regions to grow into the South American tropics in the last 34 million years?
During which period in history was the Amazon rainforest a narrow band of forest?
What did the Amazon rainforest do during the Middle Miocene?
What extinction event might have created some conditions allowing the expansion of the amazon rainforest?
Beginning how many years ago did the amazon rainforest extend 45 degrees south?
After the Oligocene period, under what period did the amazon rainforest begin to expand?
The amazon rainforest became a mostly inland forest around which global event?
Savannah areas expanded over the last how many years?
In which point did the drainage basin of the Amazon split?
In which direction did the water on the eastern side flow?
What is the name of the basin that was created from a enclosed lake?
How long ago was it when the water broke through the Purus Arch?
Where did it join in the direction of its flow?
When was the drainage basin of the Amazon believed to have split in the middle of South America?
Where did water to the east of the Amazon drainage basin flow towards?
Where did water to the west of the Amazon drainage basin flow towards?
What did water that flowed towards the Pacific have to flow across during the mid-Eocene?
What basin was formed when the Andes Mountains rose?
During what period the drainage basin of the Amazon likely split?
Near where in the continent is it believed that the Amazon basin split?
Where did water on the eastern side of the amazon basin travel after the split?
Where did the water in the Amazon Basin flow towards when moving west?
What is the lake known as which was created by the rise of the Andes Mountains?
What does LGM stands for?
What did the analysis from the sediment deposits indicate?
What are some of scientists arguments?
How has this debate been proven?
How are the explanations supported?
There have been major changes in Amazon rainforest vegetation over the last how many years?
What caused changes in the Amazon rainforest vegetation?
What has been analyzed to compare Amazon rainfall in the past and present?
What has the lower rainfall in the Amazon during the LGM been attributed to?
Many changes in the vegetation of the amazon rainforest took place since the Last Glacial Maximum, which was how many years ago?
Analysis of what kind of deposits from the Amazon Fan indicates a change in rainfall in the Amazon basin?
Changes in rainfall reduced what kind of vegetation cover in the Amazon basin?
Scientists disagree with how the Amazon rainforest changed over time with some arguing that it was reduced to isolated refugia seperated by what?
Why is it difficult to resolve disagreements about the changes in the Amazon rainforest?
What is the name of the satellite that measured the amount of dust?
How many tons of dust are blown from the Sahara each year?
How many miles does the dust travels over the Atlantic Ocean?
Which basin does the dust falls over into?
How many tons of dust remains in the air?
What tool has measured the amount of dust that travels from the Sahara to the Amazon?
How much dust is blown out of the Sahara each year?
How much Saharan dust falls over the Amazon basin each year?
How much Saharan dust remains in the air over the Amazon each year?
How much Saharan dust is blown and falls upon the Caribbean Sea each year?
A satellite that measured the amount of dust going to the Amazon was named what?
What organization runs the satellite that measured dust that landed on the Amazon?
How much windblown dust leaves the Sahara each year?
How many miles across the Atlantic Ocean does Saharan dust travel?
How many tons of Saharan dust falls on the Amazon Basin each year?
What is the name of the book written by Archeologist Betty Meggers?
What is the maximum square miles did Betty Meggers claim that can be sustained in the rainforest?
What would be needed to host a larger population?
Which findings suggested that the region was densely populated?
How many people may have lived in the Amazon region during AD 1500?
What feature of the Amazon made people believe it couldn't have many inhabitants?
What well-known archeologist believed the Amazon didn't have many inhabitants?
How many inhabitants did Betty Meggers believe could occupy each square kilometre of the Amazon?
In what book did Betty Meggers describe the idea of the Amazon being sparsely populated?
Which archaeologist proposed the idea that the Amazon rainforest couldn't sustain large populations?
Which book discussed the theory about low populations in the Amazon rainforest?
What was the theorized maximum population density per square kilometre for the Amazon rainforest?
In 1500 AD how many people were believed to have lived in the Amazon region?
In the 1980s what was the population of the amazon region?
Who was the first European to travel the Amazon River?
During what time did civilization in the Amazon was flourishing when Orellana made his observations?
What was believed to be the cause of devastation to the civilization?
How long since it's been that geoglyphs were first discovered on deforested land?
What time period did the geoglyphs date back to?
Who was the first European to travel the entire length of the Amazon River?
In what year did the first European travel the entire length of the Amazon River?
Geoglyphs dating to what period were found in deforested land along the Amazon River?
Who is given credit for discovering geoglyphs along the Amazon River?
For how many years was evidence shown that humans shaped the the Amazon?
What is terra preta called?
How much is terra preta distributed over the Amazon forest?
What did the development of this fertile soil provide in hostile environment?
In which region tribe were large settlements discovered?
Who discovered this and where did they come from?
What type of soil is considered a product of soil management by indigenous peoples in the Amazon Forest?
The development of Terra Preta allowed for what to happen in the Amazon Forest?
In lands attributed to what tribe are found remains of large settlements?
Who is credited with finding evidence of large settlements in the Amazon forest?
Evidence for what types of structures were found in 2003?
How many species of insects are known in the region?
What portion of bird species make up the world's total live in the rainforest?
How many plant species make up the total in the rainforest?
What is the total make up of fish species living in the Amazon?
How many invertebrate species are known in Brazil alone?
The Amazon region is home to how many species of insect?
How many species of bird and mammals are there in the Amazon region?
How many plant species are estimated to be in the Amazon region?
How many reptiles have been discovered in the Amazon region?
What amount of bird species on earth are found in the Amazon rainforest?
How many kilometers of acres of the Ecuadorian rainforest is supported?
How many tree species are in the rainforest?
How many tons of living plants are in the rainforest?
What is the average plant biosmass?
What is the number of plant species in economics and social interest?
Where does the Amazon region rate among the entire earth for its amount of biodiversity?
How many tree species were found in one square kilometer of Ecuadorian rainforest in 2001?
How many tons of live plants were found to live in one square kilometer of the Amazon rainforest in 1999?
What is the average weight of the biomass per hectare in the Amazon?
How many plant species are of interest to society and manufacturers exist in the amazon rainforest?
Which animal that lives in the Amazon river may produce a deadly shock?
Large predators of the Amazon rainforest include the jaguar, cougar, and anaconda, what is one other example?
What fish living in the Amazon river is known to bit humans?
What are dart frogs are known to secrete?
What type of bat that lives in the Amazon rainforest can spread rabies?
What is the process of removing trees from a forest known as?
Acessing the Amazon rainforest was restricted before what era?
What method was used to clear forest for crop cultivation in the amazon forest?
What are two factors that made it difficult for colonists to the Amazon forest to survive?
What is notable about the Amazon forest when it is seen from space?
How many square kilometres of the Amazon forest was lost by 1991?
In the year 2000 how many square kilometres of the Amazon forest had been lost?
What is most of the cleared land in the Amazon region used for?
Where is Brazil ranked globally in soybean production?
What percentage of the land cleared in the Amazon is used for growing livestock?
Highways built in the Amazon rainforest were built primarily for what kind of farmers?
What did creating highways in the Amazon rainforest lead to?
The rate of clearing of forest from 2000 to 2005 was how many square miles per year?
What happened to the rate of deforestation in the Amazon region of Brazil between 2004 and 2014?
How much higher was the rate of deforestation in 2000, to 2005 compared to 1995 to 2000?
What are environmentalists concerned about losing in the Amazon forest?
The loss of biodiversity may be the result of what, according to environmentalists?
What are environmentalists concerned about having released from the Amazon region?
What amount of the worlds carbon is stored in the Amazon forest?
How many metric tons of carbon are believed to be stored in the Amazon forest?
What change in conditions may make the Amazon rainforest unsustainable?
A complete loss of rainforest cover may be caused by what type of emissions?
If one computer model turns out correct, by what year would there be a nearly complete loss of rainforest in the Amazon basin?
How long may the Amazon rainforest be threatened, according to some computer models?
What are the main threats facing the Amazon rainforest in the current century?
What kind of territories are being destroyed by ecocide in the Amazon?
What type of conservation effort is gaining attention in the Amazon?
Indigenous territories are largely being destroyed in what two ways?
The Peruvian Amazon indigienous people are one group struggling in the Amazon, what is another group?
There is growing interest in what indigenous group in the Amazon?
What kind of sending technology is being used to protect tribal lands in the Amazon?
What tribe uses GPS devices to map lands?
Tribal members living in the rainforests of what region are using Google Earth?
What do tribes use Google Earth and GPS for?
Why do some tribes use remote sensing technology?
Classifying the stages of what is important to mapping aspects of the Amazon?
The classification of aspects of the Amazon forest is important for mapping what type of emission?
Who organized the trees of the Amazon into four categories?
In what year did one individual suggest classifying the trees of the Amazon into four categories?
What type of radar was used to classify trees into four categories?
In what year did the Amazon experience its worst drought of recent history?
What organization argued that drought, among other effects, could cause the Amazon forest to reach a "tipping point?"
Along with drought, what is one other factor that is pushing the Amazon rainforest towards a tipping point?
What might the Amazon forest become if it passes the tipping point and starts to die?
What organization predicted that the Amazon forest could survive only three years of drought?
In what year did the Amazon experience a drought that may have been more extreme than in 2005?
How many square miles large was the region impacted by the 2010 drought?
How many areas were impacted by the the death of vegetation in the 2010 drought?
The southern part of the Amazon forest was mainly impacted by drought in what year?
How many tons of carbon are absorbed the Amazon in a typical year?
What are Ctenophora commonly known as?
Where do Ctenophora live?
What size are adult Ctenophora?
What is a ctenophora?
What does the ctenophora use to swim?
What does ctenophora use for digestion and respiration?
How large can ctenophora grow?
What is the most distinctive feature of ctenophora?
What are ctenophora commonly known as?
How big can ctenophora grow?
What does ctenophora rely on for digestion and respiration?
What does ctenophora mean in Greek?
Where do ctenophora live?
How much can Ctenophores eat in one day?
How many species of Ctenophores have been validated?
How many species of Ctenophores have not been fully described or named?
How many species of Ctenophora have been validated?
What are the little tentacles that cydippids have called?
How much food does a ctenophora eat in a day?
What do coastal beroids not have that other ctenophora have?
What does coastal beriods use as teeth?
How much do ctenophore eat in a day?
What are the small tentacles on Cydippids called?
What do Beriods use as teeth?
What do Cydippids use to capture their prey?
How many different species of ctenohore are there?
What gender are most species of Ctenophores?
What do young Ctenophores generaly look like?
Are juiveniles capable of reproduction?
What is unique about a hermaphrodite?
What can a simultaneous hermaphrodite do?
What type of hermaphrodite produces egg and sperm at different times?
Which species eggs are fertilized and kept inside the parents body until hatched?
What causes the population of ctenophora to grow at an explosive rate?
What is a hermaphrodite?
What is unique about simultaneous hermaphrodites?
What is a trait of sequential hermaphrodites?
Which group keep the eggs are fertilized and kept inside the parent's body until they hatch?
Which group has young that are born with no tentacles and a large mouth?
What sea were Ctenophores accidently introduced?
What specific type of Ctenophore was introduced into the Black Sea?
What promoted the growrth of Mnemiposis in the Black Sea?
What does the Beroe eat?
What was introduces into the Black Sea?
What does mnemiopsis eat?
Where do ctenophores be found in large numbers?
Where can ctenophores be found in large amounts?
What are phytoplankton?
What ctenophore was accidentally introduced into The Black Sea?
What event was blamed on the introduction of mnemiopsis into The Black Sea?
What was done to counteract the overpopulation of mnemiopsis in The Black Sea?
When did the Cretaceous-Paleogene extinction happen?
Evidence indicates that Cydippids are not what?
How old are the fossils found that represent ctenophhores?
What were the fossils that were found to represent ctenphores missing that current ctenphora have?
Fossils found that were believed to be ctenophores were how old?
What event happened 66 million years ago?
Cypiddids are not what?
What do current ctenophores have that fossils found did not have?
Jellyfish ans sea anemones belong to what phylum?
What makes ctenophores different from all other animals?
Ctenophora are less complex than which other phylum?
Which phylum is more complex than sponges?
What does ctenophore use to capture prey?
Jellyfish and sea anemones belong to which group/
What do ctenophores have that no other animals have?
What do ctenophore use to capture their prey?
Which two groups have cells bound by inter-cell connections and membranes, muscles, a nervous system and sensory organs?
Ctenophores are less complex than what other group?
What is the jelly-like susbtance called?
Ctenophores and cnidarians are classified as what?
Which group has two layers of cells with a middle layer of mesoglea?
Ctenophores, cnidarians and what other group are labelled diploblastic?
What are the hairs on ctenophores called?
What are cilia used for?
Comb like bands of cilia are called what?
What does ctenophore mean in Greek?
Which cidippid is used as a description on ctenophores in most textbooks?
Which group of ctenophore are are hardest to study?
Why are coastal species tough?
Which ctenophora have been studies the most?
The inside of a ctenophore is lined with what?
What do photocytes produce?
What is the throat called?
What does the internal cavity contain?
What are the most active parts of ctenophora?
What are the eight comb rows on the outer surface called?
Combs are called what?
What does the 9 +3 pattern of cilia thought to do?
What direction do ctenophore swim?
Cilia can g ow up too what length?
How do ctenophores control buoyancy?
Ciliary rosettes pump water into what to control buoyancy?
What does pumping water into the mesoglea do?
What does the ciliary rosettes do to decease bulk and increase density?
What is the largest sensory feature of the ctenophora?
Where is the aboral organ located?
What protects the statocyst?
What is the main component of the aboral organ?
What is a statocyst?
What is the common coastal pleurobrachia called?
What does the pleurobrachia have on opposite sides of its body?
Cydippid are typically what shape?
The long tentacles on the pleurbrachia are protected by what?
Where is the mouth located on the pleuobrachia located?
What are the tentacles of cydipped ctenophores are usually fringed with?
What are colloblasts?
What makes the tentilla of euplokamis different from other cysippids?
How many types of movements do euplokamis tentilla have?
What does the euplokamis use the three types of movement for?
How many rows of combs are there?
Where are the rows of combs located?
How are the combs spaced?
What runs from the balancer in the statocyst to the comb rows?
What does the lobata have pair of?
What are auricles?
How many auricles do most species have?
What do the auricles do?
What do lobates feed on?
What does the bathocyroe and ocyropsis do to escape danger?
What happens when bathocyroe and ocyropsis clap their lobes together?
The movements of the lobates combs are controlled by what?
Cydippids combs are controlled by what?
Beroida are known by what other name?
What group has no feeding appendages?
Some species of beroe have a pair of strips of adhesive cells on the stomach wall. What does it do?
What does the beroe do when pursuing prey?
What does the beroida have instead of feeding appendages?
Which species are ribbon-shaped planktonic animals?
What is the largest ctenophore?
What are cestida called?
How do cestids swim?
Which species moves by a darting motion?
What do most platyctenida have on their aboral surface?
What do platyctenida use their pharynx for?
What do all but one platycenida species lack?
Where do platycenida live?
How are eggs and sperm released?
How do platyctenids reproduce?
What genus has self-fertilization been seen?
Where are the gonads located?
Is fertilization internal or exeternal in most species?
Juvenile and adult beroe lack what?
Where do juvenile platyctenids live?
When do juvenile develop into adults?
Juvenile platyctenids act like what?
Which genus lack tentacles and sheaths?
What do bathyctena chuni, euplokamis stationis and eurhamphaea vexilligera have in common?
When do bathyctena chuni, euplokamis stationis and eurhamphaea vexilligera excrete secretions?
What are the secretions commonly called?
Do adults or juveniles secretions luminesce brighter?
Are ctenophores predators, vegetarian or parasitic?
Haeckelia prey mostly on what animal?
What happens to the jellyfish nematocysts when they are eaten by the haeckelia?
What does the bolinopsis generally eat?
What is the name of the two-tentacled cydippid that feedsentirely on salps called?
Why was it thought that ctenophores were a poor diet for other animals?
What is the oncorhynchus also called?
What do beroids typically eat?
Where have herbivorous fishes been seen feeding on gelatinous zooplankton?
Turtles and jellyfish can eat large quantities of what?
What is blamed for causing the sharp drop in fish catches in the Black Sea and the Sea of Azov?
How was the ctenophore mnemiopsis leidyi introduced into The Black Sea and the Sea of Azov?
How was the population of mnemiopsis in The black Sea and the Sea of Azov brought under control?
When was ctenophore mnemiopsis leidyi introduced into The Black Sea and the Sea of Azov?
How does cooling of the local environment affect the mnemiopsis?
Why are ctenophores extremely rare as fossils?
Ediacaran eoandromeda can be regarded to represent what?
What was the period called that was 505 million years ago?
How many species were found in the Burgess Shale?
What did the fossils found in the Burgess Shale lack?
How old were the fossils found in China?
What type of fossils were found in China?
Which genus is considered the "aunt" of ctenophores?
Stromatoveris is similair to which genus?
Vendobionta lived during which period?
Recent studies believe that ctenophores are the sister lineage to what?
What do some researchers believe is the earliest-diverging animal phylum is?
Which genus of ctenophores does not have cydipped-like larvae?
A molecular phylogeny analysis confirmed that cydippid are not what?
When was the Cretaceous-Paleogen extinction occur?
Who did a morphologically analysis in 1985 that concluded cydippids are not monophyletic?
Which city is the fifth-largest city in California?
How far is Fresno from Los Angeles?
What does the name Fresno mean in Spanish?
What is featured on the city of Fresno's city flag?
How do you pronounce Fresno?
The Central Pacific Railroad established a station for its new line in what year?
What were the reasons why residents moved to the town of Fresno Station?
In what year did Fresno become an incorporated city?
How many streetcars did the Fresno Traction Company operate in 1931?
What entity sparked the growth of Fresno Station?
In 1940, what percentage of the population in Fresno was Asian?
What ethnic neighborhood in Fresno had primarily Japanese residents in 1940?
In 1942, what was North Fresno previously called?
What was the Pinedale Assembly Center?
What was the Fresno Fairgrounds used as?
What new product did Bank of America introduce in 1958?
What was the name of the first successful credit card?
What did the BankAmericard allow customers do to that they couldn't do with previous financial instruments?
In what year did BankAmericard change its name?
What present-day company did BankAmericard turn into?
Who wrote "Walking in Fresno?"
Who recorded "Walking in Fresno?"
In what town did Bill Aiken grow up?
On what show did Bill Aiken make is television debut?
Who was Bill Aiken's adopted mother?
How many large public parks does Fresno have?
Which park is home to the Fresno Chafffee Zoo?
Which park is home to the Kearney Mansion?
Which is one of the park features located in North Fresno?
Which park hosts the largest Civil War reenactment on the west coast?
During what period did downtown Fresno thrive?
What were two of Fresno's most beautiful architectural buildings that are now demolished?
What former building is currently known as Grand 1401?
Which one of Fresno's hotels burned down?
In what year did Fresno get its first pedestrian mall?
What was the pedestrian mall renamed?
Which artist has a piece of his artwork located at the Fulton Mall?
After reopening, where will the art pieces be located after restoration?
What feature will enrich the the pedestrian friendly environment after restoration?
Where is the neighborhood of Sunnyside located in Fresno?
What are the two major thoroughfares of Sunnyside?
When was most of Sunnside developed?
Where is the home of the Sunnyside Country Club?
Who designed the golf course located at the Sunnyside Country Club?
The Tower District is centered around which historic theatre?
When was the Tower Theatre built?
From what landmark within Fresno does the Tower Theatre get its name?
What was the original name of California State University at Fresno?
How far is Fresno City College from the Tower District?
During what period did the Tower Theatre re-open?
After its re-opening, which types of movies did the Tower Theatre show?
In what year did Roger Rocka's Dinner Theater & Good Company Players open?
Where is Audra McDonald from?
Which two leading roles did Audra McDonald perform when she was in high school?
What type of theater do the neighborhoods feature?
How far apart are some of the neighborhood's features?
What area has become attractive for restaurants?
Which Fresno district is the center for the LGBT community?
Which district in Fresno is known as the center for the heavy metal community?
What type of homes is Fresno known for?
What types of houses are designed by Fresno architects?
Does the residential architecture of the Tower District compare or contrast with other part of Fresno?
How recently has the homes in Fresno been restored?
Which boulevard can you find many majestic homes in the area?
Who mapped the Alta Vista Tract?
In what year did developers Billings & Meyering acquire the Alta Vista Tract?
How many homes did the Alta Vista Tract have five years after Billings & Meyering acquired it?
Which company provided streetcar connections between downtown and the hospital?
What is another name for the west side of Fresno?
In which direction does the west side of Fresno neighborhood lie to the 99 freeway?
The west side of Fresno is the center of which ethnic community?
What are the two principal Asian-American groups living in the west side neighborhood of Fresno?
Which neighborhood lies west of the 41 freeway?
Who is Kearney Boulevard named after?
What kinds of trees is Kearney Boulevard lined with?
Between which two streets along Kearney Boulevard were wealthy African-Americans at one time residing?
What was the name given to a section of Kearney Boulevard in efforts to change the areas image?
What area of Brookhaven is still known for its high levels of crime?
When were the public housing developments built in the neighborhood?
On which corner is the shopping center located?
What are the two processing facilities in the neighborhood?
Where is the airport located?
How much retail activity does the neighborhood have?
Who founded Woodward Park?
How many total acres is Woodward Park?
How many seats does the amphitheatre at Woodward park have?
How many miles, once completed, will the the Lewis S. Eaton trail cover?
What months out of the year is Woodward Park open?
When was the Sierra Sky Park Airport formed?
Who created the nation's first aviation community?
What is the name of the first aviation community built?
The transportation law allows personal aircraft to share the roadways with what?
Are there any other aviation communities such as Sierra Sky Park in the United States?
How would one describe the summers in Fresno?
What month is the warmest in Fresno?
How much rain per year does Fresno get on average?
In which direction does most of the wind in Fresno originate from?
In which months does Fresno experience increased wind coming from the southeastern direction?
What is the hottest temperature record for Fresno?
On what date was the record low temperature in Fresno?
In what year did Fresno experience the most rainfall?
What is the most snow Fresno has ever had?
What is the most rainfall recorded in a 24 hour period in Fresno?
what was Fresno's population in 2010?
What was the percentage of whit people in Fresno in 2010?
How many Native American people resided in Fresno in 2010?
What was the percentage of Non-Hispanic Whites in 2010?
How many people per square mile lived in Fresno in 2010?
How many households has kids under the age of 18 living in them?
What was the percentage of a female householder with no husband present?
How many same-sex married couples or partnerships were there?
What was the average family size?
What was the average household size?
How many people lived in Fresno in 2000, according to the Census Bureau?
How many housing units were there in 2000?
What was the percentage of Black or African-Americans living in the city?
About how many of the Asian population was Hmong?
What was the population density in 2000?
Why does Fresno only have UHF television stations?
What was the very first television station to broadcast in Fresno?
When did the KMJ-TV first broadcast?
What is KMJ now referred to?
What is the name of the CBS affiliate in Fresno?
What route connects Fresno with the California Central Valley?
What is another name for State Route 168?
What is another name for the Yosemite Freeway?
State Route 180 comes from which direction via Mendota?
Which is the largest city not connected to an interstate highway?
In what year was the Interstate Highway System created?
Which State Route has been in discussion to upgrade to interstate standards?
What are the factors that are contributing to the desire to have SR 99 improved to be of interstate standards?
Which company provides train service in Fresno?
Where is the Santa Fe Railroad Depot located?
What two railroads have railyards in the city of Fresno?
If you were to take a train west or south out of the city of Fresno, which railroad would you take?
Which city is planned to be a part of the California High Speed Rail?
What did Paul Baran develop
What did Distributed Adaptive Message Block Switching do
What did this concept contradict
What is Donald Davies credited with
What did Paul Baran develop in the late 1950's
What was the goal of the system
Who is credited with the modern name for this system
Packet Switching contrast with what other principal
What is circuit switching characterized by
How is packet switching charecterized
What does Packet switching contrast with
How is circuit switching allocated
How is circuit switching charecterized
How is packet switching characterized
How is packet mode communication implemented
How are packets normally forwarded
In cases of shared physical medium how are they delivered
How is packet mode communication implemented
How are packets normally forwarded
In cases with shared medium how is it delivered
What did Baran develop during research at RAND
What was developed for the Air Force
What 3 things does the Air Force work key on
How are Air force messages delivered
What was report P-2626
What delivery message was used
What concept was developed by Baran while researching at RAND
What things did the network concentrate on
What did Donald Davies Develop
What did Davies call his system
What did Davies want to build
What use was suggested for the system
Who developed the same technology as Baran
What did Davies call the System
What was suggested at the Symposium in 1967
What does each packet includ in connectionless mode
How are the packets routed
What is included with each packet label
What happens to the packet at the destination
Is the packet header long
Why is the node requiered to look up
What is a connection identifier
What does connection orientation require
WHat do x.25 and Frame Relay both require
What supplanted Frame Relay and X.25
What were X.25 and Frame relay used for
What is a typical configuration
WHen did ARPNET and SITA become operational
2 differences betwen X.25 and ARPNET CITA technologies
WHat does UserDatagram Protocol gaurentee
X.25 uses what type network type
What was Apple Talk
WHat were features of Apple Talk
What did the Apple system assign automatically
This type of system is known as
What network was designed by the french
What was a first for this network
How was this possible
This network influenced later models of
What is DECnet
What did DECnet originally do
DEC originally had 3 layers but evolved into how many layers
What did DECnet phase 2 become
What was Warner Sinback
The 4 sales and service centers are viewed as
Were the centers profitable
What did Warner Sinback decide
WHy was the Merit network formed in Michigan
What completed the triad
What set the stage for Merits role in NSFNET
What was telenet
Who founded Telnet
Purpose of Telnet
Telnet Used what Interface technology
Telnet was sold to
What was Tymnet
What did Tymnet connect
How did user of Tymnet connect
The business allowed for private companies to do what
Gateways allowed private companies to do what
How many types of X.25 networks were there originally
Who developed DATAPAC
WHat did foreign clones of DATAPAC allow for
What was AUSTPAC
What did AUSTPAC support
How are AUSTPAC connections made
What was DATANET 1
Strictly speaking who was included in DATANET 1
Who else did DATNET 1 refer to
Was the Use of the DATANET 1 name correct
What is CSNET
What was the purpose of CSNET
Funding limitations allowed CSNET to be what
what is Internet2
Who did internet2 partner with
What was the first internet2 network named
Who did internet2 partner with
ableine was retired and the new platform is called
What is NSFNET
What did NSFNET promote
What did NSFNET eventually provide
what does vBNS stand for
What did vBNS do
Who operated the vBSN network
By 199 how many universities were connected
What did the network install in 1999
Where did the black death originate?
How did the black death make it to the Mediterranean and Europe?
How much of the European population did the black death kill?
When did the world's population finally recover from the black death?
For how long did the plague stick around?
What does it mean for a disease to be enzootic?
How old are the gravestones that reference the plague?
Where do scientists think all of the plagues originated from?
When did the Chinese famine begin?
How many did this epidemic in China kill?
Who introduced plague to Europe?
Who did the army siege belong to?
What did the Mongol army throw in their catapults?
Where did the genoese traders bring the plague?
What contributed to the severity of the plague?
Which direction did the disease first move in?
Which country was the last to receive the disease?
What types of European groups were able to avoid the plague?
Where was the disease spreading between 1348 and 1350?
When did a plague-ridden ship land in Norway?
What effect did the plague have on the Middle East?
When had the plague reached Alexandria?
How did the plague infiltrate Alexandria?
Where did the residents of Antioch flee to?
Who claimed that the name Black Death first appeared in 1631?
What is the Latin name for Black Death?
Who allegedly coined the name Black Death?
When did the name black death officially take root in England?
Did the plague spread in Scandinavia or Germany first?
What was the black death originally blamed on?
Who was the medical report written for?
What is the newer, more widely accepted theory behind the spread of the plague?
What is the bad air theory officially known as?
What was considered responsible for the black death as well as the epidemic in southern China?
Where and when did the investigation of the plague pathogen begin?
Who was yersinia pestis named for?
What did Paul-Louis Simond establish in 1898?
What was the bubonic plague mechanism reliant on?
Who wrote about the great pestilence in 1893?
What did Gasquet think the plague was?
When did the second edition of Gasquet's book come out?
What did Gasquet's book blame the plague on?
What is another plague thought to have spread the same way?
What is the mortality rate of the modern bubonic plague?
How high do plague fevers run?
What percent of untreated victims of the plague die within 8 days?
What is the mortality rate of pneumonic plague?
What skin-related symptom appears from the pneumonic plague?
When did the Plos Pathogens paper come out?
What was the Plos Pathogens paper about?
How did scientists assess the DNA/RNA of yersinia pestis?
Where did scientists find their Y. pestis sample?
What does the plos pathogen paper claim?
What are clades?
What strains of y. pestis were found in the mass graves?
What do the strains of y. pestis suggest abut the plague?
How and when did the first variant of y. pestis enter Europe?
When did the y. pestis reach England?
What is the current status of the Haensch study?
Where was the burial site used for testing located?
What is thought to have happened to the y. pestis that caused the black death?
When was the study on sequenced Y genomes published?
Who challenged the plague theory first?
What did Shrewsbury note about the plague?
What was Shrewsbury's conclusion?
What did Graham Twigg publish in 1984?
Who discussed Twigg's study in 2002?
What is as important as identifying plague symptoms?
Why are researchers struggling to identify the history of the plague?
How much do estimations of the population during the plague vary?
Where can population estimates be extrapolated from?
During which years was no census taken?
Why might rats not be responsible for the plague?
How significant was the transfer of disease through fleas?
Why might the temperature affect the theory of plague spreading?
Was the bubonic plague spread faster or slower than modern bubonic plague?
How many years could separate outbreaks of the black death?
What does Graham Twigg propose about the spread of disease?
What was Norman Cantor's theory about the plague?
Which diseases do many scientists believe contributed to plague pandemic?
What is septicemia?
How many bodies did Public Health England exhume?
How much of the population in the Middle East died of the plague?
How much of Paris' population was killed by the plague?
What do isolated, spaced out graves of plague victims indicate?
How many people would die of plague in largely populated cities?
Which areas were least vulnerable to disease?
When did the plague return to Europe?
What did Biraben say about the plague in Europe?
How many French people were lost to plague between 1628-31?
What did historians do in the absence of census figures?
When did the black death technically subside?
How many people died in the outbreak of 1471?
When was the great plague of London?
How many people died of plague in Paris in 1466?
The black plague ravaged Europe for three years followed by what country?
Which outbreak was associated with troops in the thirty years war?
When was the last plague outbreak?
How many times did plague occur in Venice?
How many were killed by plague in Italy in the 17th century?
How many were killed by plague in Naples in 1656?
How many residents of Seville died of plague in 1649?
Who fought in the great Northern war?
When was Europe's last major epidemic?
During which years was the plague present in Islamic countries?
How many people were lost in Algiers during 1620-21?
How long did plague last in the Ottoman empire?
How many people, at most, have died of plague in Baghdad?
An igneous rock is a rock that crystallizes from what?
Sedimentary rock can be turned into which of the three types of rock?
When the three types of rock are re-melted what is formed?
What are the three major types of rock?
What changes the mineral content of a rock?
What was the most important discovery that led to the understanding that Earth's lithosphere is separated into tectonic plates?
Which parts of the Earth are included in the lithosphere?
What is another word for the Earth's upper mantle?
Plate tectonics can be seen as the intimate coupling between rigid plates on the surface of the Earth and what?
In what decade was seafloor spreading discovered?
What is the area called where two plates move apart?
What is the area called where one plate subducts under another?
What type of fault boundary is defined by having widespread powerful earthquakes, as in the state of California?
Whose theory was the theory of continental drift?
The lithosphere moves over which mantle n the theory of plate tectonics?
What types of waves do seismologists use to image the interior of the Earth?
In the layered model of the Earth, the outermost layer is what?
In the layered model of the Earth there are seismic discontinuities in which layer?
Recently a more detailed model of the Earth was developed. Seismologists were able to create this using images of what from the interior of the Earth?
In the layered model of the Earth, the mantle has two layers below it. What are they?
Why is the second timeline needed?
Which timeline is further expanded in the fourth scale?
What is the name of the latest epoch?
The Pleistocene epoch takes place during which period?
What principle relates to the formation of faults and the age of the sequences through which they cut?
When rock formations are found on top of a fault that have not been cut, then they must be older or younger than the fault?
Finding what helps to determine if a fault is a normal fault or a thrust fault?
Rocks on top of a fault that are cut are always older or younger than the fault itself?
What foreign bodies, which are older than the rocks themselves, occur igneous rocks?
Xenoliths are picked up by what and deposited into the matrix of igneous rocks?
What is another word for inclusions in sedimentary rocks?
What is the principle that states that with sedimentary rocks, inclusions must be older than the formation that contains them?
What is something that is often torn up and included in sedimentary rock?
Which principle is based on the appearance of fossils in sedimentary rocks?
Whose principles were the principle of faunal succession built upon?
The fact that not all fossils may be found globally at the same time causes the principle to become what?
The presence or absence of what can be used to determine the relative age of the formations in which they are found?
The principle of faunal succession was developed 100 years before whose theory of evolution?
When was the ability to use radioactive isotopes to date rock formations developed?
What type of correlation was used previously to help date rock formations?
It is now possible to convert old relative ages into what type of ages using isotopic dating?
Previous to isotopic dating sections of rocks had to be dated using fossils and stratigraphic correlation relative to what?
When dating rocks, what is the absolute isotopic date applied to?
What techniques can be used to determine paleotopography?
The point at which different radiometric isotopes stop diffusing into and out of the crystal lattice is called what?
What type of ratios are used in geochronologic and thermochronologic studies?
How can you find the absolute age of sedimentary rock units which do not contain radioactive isotopes?
Rock units become thicker and shorten when placed under this type of compression.
Where do thrust faults form?
When rock folds deep in the Earth it can fold one of two ways, when it buckles upwards it creates what?
When rock folds deep in the Earth it can fold one of two ways, when it buckles downwards it creates what?
If the tops of the rock units within the folds remain pointing upwards, they are called what?
This causes the rock unit as a whole to become longer and thinner.
Stretched rocks that pinch into lenses are known by what word?
Where can the entire sedimentary sequence of the Grand Canyon be seen in less than the length of a meter?
Rocks that are a depth where they are ductilely stretched are also often what?
What causes rock extension?
What is another word for long, planar igneous intrusions?
Where do dikes form?
What type of gradients are formed by faulting and other deformational processes?
What activity maintains topographic gradients?
What events are often associated with volcanism and igneous activity?
The Hawaiian Islands are made up almost entirely of what?
What is the oldest known rock in the world?
What type of rock is found at the Grand Canyon?
The rocks at the Grand Canyon have been in place since when?
Where is the oldest known rock in the world located?
What is petrology?
What is stratigraphy?
What is structural geology?
What modern formations do geologists study?
What do petrologists use electron microprobes in the laboratory for?
What properties are analyzed with a conoscopic lens by petrologists?
Stable and radioactive isotope studies provide insight into what?
Petrologists identify rock samples in the field and where else?
What type of microscope is used by petrologists?
How else can petrologists understand the pressures at which different mineral phases appear?
How else can petrologists understand the temperature at which different mineral phases appear?
Data from physical experiments can be extrapolated to the field to understand what processes?
What type of geologists give information about strain within the crystalline structure of the rocks?
How do structural geologists observe the fabric within the rocks?
In order to better understand the orientations of faults and folds, structural geologists do what with measurements of geological structures?
What kind of experiments of rock deformation do structural geologists perform?
Zones in which mountains are built along convergent tectonic plate boundaries are called what?
What are among the most well known experiments in structural geology?
Horizontal layers of what are pulled along a surface into a back stop in analog versions of orogenic wedge experiments?
What does critically tapered mean?
Which is more sophisticated, numericals model or an analog models of orogenic wedges?
The analysis of stratigraphic sections such as drill cores is done by who?
What type of surveys show the location of stratigraphic units in the subsurface?
What can be combined with geophysical data to produce a better view of the subsurface?
What tool do stratigraphers use to see their data in three dimensions?
Stratigraphers try to locate areas for what types of extraction?
Why is it important to precisely date rocks within the stratigraphic section?
Who analyzes rock samples from drill cores in the lab?
What types of scientists looks for signs of magnetic reversals in igneous rocks within the drill cores?
Who dates rocks, precisely, within the stratigraphic section?
Fielding H. Garrison believes that the science of geology can be traced to where?
Living from 973–1048 CE he was one of the earliest Persian geologists, what was his name?
In China, this person inferred that the land was formed by erosion of the mountains and by silt deposition, what was his name?
This person proposed explanations for the origins of earthquakes and the formation of mountains, what was his name?
What prompted Shen Kuo to believe the land was formed by erosion of the mountains?
Who is viewed as the first modern geologist?
In 1785 James Hutton presented what paper to the Royal Society of Edinburgh?
James Hutton published a 2 volume version of his theories in what year?
What was the main idea of James Hutton's paper?
Who produced the first geological map of the U.S.?
In what year was the first geological map of the U.S. produced?
In what year did William Maclure begin the process of creating the first geological map of the U.S.?
What was the memoir entitled which was submitted to the American Philosophical Society?
To whom did William Maclure submit the map?
First published by Sir Charles Lyell in 1830 this book was called what?
What doctrine did the doctrine of the Principles of Geology successfully promote?
Which theory states that slow geological processes are still occurring today, and have occurred throughout Earth's history?
Which theory states that Earth's features remained unchanged after forming in one single catastrophic event?
Which famous evolutionist was influenced by the book Principles of Geology?
How many miles south of Edinburgh is Newcastle?
How many miles from the north Sea is Newcastle?
What network is Newcastle a member of?
What county was Newcastle a part of until 1400?
What's the regional nickname for Newcastle and its surrounding area?
Who built a castle in Newcastle in 1080?
What trade was the city an important center of in the 14th century?
What resource was mined in the Newcastle area?
What century was Newcastle's port developed in?
What globally popular half marathon began in 1981?
What was the first recorded settlement in what became Newcastle?
What river was there originally a bridge across in Roman times?
What was the estimated population of Pons Aelius around the 2nd century?
Whose wall has fragments visible in places around Newcastle even today?
What tribes were the Romans fearful would invade from the North?
Newcastle served as a northern fortress for which country during the Middle Ages?
Who granted Newcastle a new charter in 1589?
How high was the stone wall built around Newcastle in the 13th century?
What was the name of the King of the Scots?
How many times did Newcastle fight off the Scots during the 14th century?
What did a 1530 royal act restrict shipments of?
What was the cartel of Newcastle burgesses known as?
What does the phrase "taking coals to Newcastle" mean?
What was the American Timothy Dexter widely regarded as?
What did the merchants of Newcastle plot to do to Timothy Dexter?
Who did the keelmen live with in a tight-knight community east of Newcastle?
How was coal transferred from the river banks to colliers?
How many folks died of plague in Newcastle in the 1630s?
What percentage of Newcastle's population was culled by the plague?
The epidemic in Newcastle was the most what in any British city at the time?
Who did the North declare for during the English civil war?
Who was Cromwell's allies?
What was roaring as Newcastle was stormed?
What does Fortiter Defendit Triumphans mean?
Who was imprisoned in Newcastle by the Scots in 1646 through 1647?
What did the Industrial Revolution cause to happen to Newcastle?
What was the largest pottery company in the world in 1817?
Newcastle was one of the first cities in the world to have what innovation?
What were shipbuilding and engineering important to Newcastle for in the 19th century?
What did Charles Parsons invent?
What type of layout does Newcastle's streets have in many parts?
What are chares?
What runs from the riverside to higher parts of the city center?
What kind of buildings are in the towns of Close, Sandhill and Quayside?
What is the House of Tides?
What has recently undergone extensive restoration?
What did John Dobson describe Newcastle as?
What street does Nikolaus Pevsner think is one of the finest in England?
When was a part of Grainger Town destroyed?
What is in Eldon Square?
What's the name of the green space north of the center of Newcastle?
What an the freeman of Newcastle do with their cows on the Town Moor?
What is said to be the largest travelling funfair in Europe?
When is the funfair held in Newcastle?
What honorary title does Bob Geldof hold?
What has replaced the former shipping premises?
Who commissioned the Gateshead Milennium Bridge?
Who designed the Sage Gateshead music center?
Why have Newcastle and Gateshead linked together under a common banner?
How many days did the River Tyne have the Bambuco Bridge?
What is the historic heart of Newcastle?
When was Richard Grainger actively building and developing?
How high are many of the buildings with turrets?
How man of Grainger Town's 450 buildings are listed?
What earlier market did the Grainger Market replace?
When did Newcastle's first indoor market open?
How many guests attended the dinner celebrating the opening of the Grainger Market?
How is the opening of the Grainger Market documented in the Laing Art Gallery?
Who listed the Grainger Market architecture as grade 1 in 1954?
What's the climate like in Newcastle?
What kind of influence does the Gulf Stream exert on Newcastle?
What type of shadow does the North Pennines cast?
When was the coldest temperature in Newcastle recorded?
What area is Newcastle's milder winters and cooler summers most similar to?
What year was Newcastle ninth in retail expenditures?
What is one of the largest city center shopping complexes in the UK?
What department store is thought to be the first in the world?
How did Brainbridge's official ledgers report revenue?
What year was the new bus station in Newcastle officially opened?
What type of destination is the area around Grey's Monument?
Gosforth and Byker are the largest shopping areas of what type?
The largest brand of what store in the UK is located in Kingston Park?
What is the name of the largest indoor shopping centre in Europe?
Where is the MetroCentre located?
What was the dominant housing template when industrial centres were growing the fastest?
What were Tyneside flats built as?
Where is this housing style being developed recently?
What profession are Cany Ash and Robert Sakula?
What can be achieved without building high or getting rid of common areas?
What proportion did detached homes rise in 2010?
Where does the proportion of shared and converted houses in 2011 put this dwelling type in the color-coded brackets?
What type of markets is the dwelling type below?
Harrogate market is in the local what?
What market other than Harrogate, Cheltenham, Bath, inner London, Hastings and Brighton is overinflated?
The population of Newcastle was 189,863 according to what year's census?
Which borough of Newcastle had a population around 259,000?
Newcastle is home to a large population of what type of person?
There are two of what type of institution in Newcastle?
Jesmond and Heaton are areas filled predominantly with what?
What is the average age of people who live in Newcastle?
Scottish or Irish describe the type of what people in Newcastle have?
What type of surnames is their a strong presence of?
What is the smallest number of Bolivians it's estimated live in Newcastle?
What percentage of Newcastle's population is it believed the Bolivians account for?
What is the dialect of Newcastle known as?
Who conquered much of England after the end of Roman imperial rule?
What does the Geordie dialect keep of the older language which came before it?
Strang is an Anglo-Saxon word which means what in modern English?
Would word means burn in the Anglo-Saxon language?
"Bairn" and "hyem" have origins from what culture?
Where are some words from the Geordia dialect used?
What folks are likely to use words like "howay" and "hadaway"?
What appears to be used exclusively in Newcastle and surrounding areas?
What language does "hoy" originate from?
What was published in February of 2007?
What was Newcastle named as the most type of city in the UK?
What's the average decibel level of noise in Newcastle?
What type of impact can the residents of Newcastle expect the city's noise to have on them?
What was one location the noise readings in Newcastle were taken at?
What is referred to as the Diamond Strip?
What is "The Gate"?
How many screens does the Empire muliplex cinema have?
What's the name of Newcastle's gay club scene?
What does the Pink Triangle have a range of?
What does Newcastle have a proud history of?
Who managed the original Theatre Royal in Newcastle?
What did Stephen Kemble guide the Theatre Royal through?
When did the theater in Newcastle originally open?
On what street was the Theatre Royal's replacement built?
What does Newcastle still contain many of?
What first opened in 1837?
What company has been hosted at the Theatre Royal for over 25 years?
What do other smaller venues of Newcastle tend to feature?
What was NewcastleGateshead voted in 2006?
What is the largest independent library outside of London?
How many CDs does Newcastle's library have?
What was the last name of the designers of Newcastle's library?
What was the first public building to be lit by electric light in Newcastle?
Who lectured at the Newcastle library on the 20th of October in 1880?
What festival takes place in April in Newcastle?
When is the Evolution Festival hosted?
How often is the AV Festival held?
What is the festival of food and drink known as?
How many weeks each year does the food and drink festival run?
What is the largest traveling fair in Europe?
When does the largest traveling fair in Europe take place?
What movement did the fair held in June have its origins in?
What type of festival is The Northern Rock Cyclone?
Which festival is held in Newcastle's Gay Community in mid-July?
What is an annual two-day multicultural event held in Newcastle in late August?
Where will the 2009 International Arts Fair be held?
What festival is held in October in Newcastle?
What cultural festival is the SAMA festival?
Who holds an annual International Arts Fair in Newcastle?
What genre of music is Lindisfarne classified as?
What year was the song Fog on the Tyne released?
What band is considered by many to be the first black metal group?
What band is often regarded as the first folk metal group?
What group is Newcastle native Andy Taylor the former lead guitarist of?
Between what dates was the building on Pilgrim Street refurbished?
Where was a cinema relocated while repairs were underway?
How many cinemas are currently housed at one site?
What's the name of the United Kingdom's sole remaining news cinema?
Where is the Tyneside Bar located?
Where is the Science Village located?
What does the Discovery Museum draw attention to?
What type of heritage does Tyneside have?
What year saw the merger of two museums in Newcastle?
What museum in Newcastle is dedicated to children's books?
What is the earliest known movie featuring scenes filmed outdoors in Newcastle?
What 1971 film was shot on location in Newcastle?
What genre of film was the 1988 film Stormy Monday?
Who directed Stormy Monday?
What famous musician starred in Stormy Monday?
Where is Newcastle's horse racing course located?
What is the name of Newcastle's basketball team?
What's the name of Newcastle's speedway team?
Where can you see greyhound racing in Newcastle?
What famous 5.9-mile athletic event takes place annually in Newcastle in June?
How far is Newcastle's airport from the center of town?
How is Newport's airport connected to the city?
How long does it take to get to the middle of Newcastle from its outskirts when riding the rails?
How many passengers per year does Newcastle's airport handle?
How many destinations are available worldwide from Newcastle's airport?
What was enhanced in 2014?
How many Grade One listed railway stations are in the UK?
What Queen opened the first covered railway station in the world?
Who constructed Newcastle's station?
What mainline station is to the east of the city center?
How often do trains journey to King's Cross?
How many hours can one expect to ride the train from Newcastle to King's Cross?
Where do all trains going to Scotland stop at?
Whose trains serve destinations in Yorkshire?
Which train company provides local and regional services?
What underground railways cover much of Tyne and Wear?
How many phases was the Metro opened in between 1980 and 1984?
What type of tunnels are constructed through Newcastle's city center?
What did Queen Elizabeth II open in Newcastle in 1981?
How many passengers a year does the rail network in Newcastle carry?
What is the name of the current refurbishment the system is undergoing?
What does the replacement of the ticket machines and introduction of ticket gates herald the transition to?
What is being overhauled as part of the improvement works?
What will be obtained as part of longer term plans for improvements to Newcastle's train system?
What type of train would some of the proposed new routes require?
What major Newcastle road stretches from Edinburgh to London?
What Newcastle road heads west to Carlisle?
What's the nickname for Newcastle's A167?
What was renumbered in Newcastle upon completion of the Western Bypass?
What was increased in November 2011?
How many bus companies provide service to the city of Newcastle?
How many major bus stations are in the city of Newcastle?
Who is Newcastle's primary bus operator in the city proper?
What is Nexus?
What bus company in Newcastle provides the majority of services south of the river?
What year did Newcastle first develop its cycling strategy?
What does the local council hope will help cut down traffic congestion in Newcastle?
What type of living does cycling promote?
What streets are contraflows to be implemented on in Newcastle?
What would the local council of Newcastle like to link their local bike networks to?
Who runs a service out of Newcastle's International Ferry Terminal?
When did the DFDS ferry service to Sweden case operation?
What did DFDS cite as the reasons it terminated operations?
When did DFDS terminate its services to Norway?
What cruise line has included Newcastle as a departure port since 2007?
How many LEA-funded 11 to 18 schools are there in Newcastle?
How many of the schools in Newcastle are independent?
What is the largest co-ed independent school in Newcastle?
What is the largest general further education college in the North East?
What religion is St Cuthbert's High School dominated by?
How many universities does Newcastle have?
Which university has its origins in a school dealing with medicine and surgery?
What did Newcastle University win in 2000?
What happened in 1992 in a UK-wide process?
What university won the award for Most IT enabled organisation?
How many cathedrals does Newcastle have?
What year was St. Nicholas' lantern tower made?
Which cathedral is located in Fenham?
Which church's saint is nicknamed The Martyr?
What did all three cathedrals in Newcastle begin their existence as?
Which parish church in Newcastle is typically agreed to be the oldest one in town?
What year was the latest addition to the Church of St. Andrew?
What was added to the the church of St. Andrew in 1726?
What surrounds the church of St. Andrew?
What received a battering during the Siege of Newcastle?
Where was ITV Tyne Tees based for over 40 years?
Where did ITV Tyne Tees move in 2005?
What gave its name to the 1980s music television program "The Tube"?
Why is the building on Spital Tongues known as the Pink Palace?
What local radio station is broadcast by the Corporation from the Pink Palace?
What is the name of Newcastle's first full-time community radio station?
What radio station do the students of Newcastle's two universities run?
How long has Radio Tyneside been the voluntary hospital radio service?
What Newcastle radio station is based at the Great North Children's Hospital?
Where does the Newcastle Student Radio station broadcast from during terms?
What year did Charles Avison die in Newcastle?
What title did Newcastle native Basil Hume achieve?
Who is known as the father of the modern steam railways?
What did Sir Charles Parsons invent?
What country was Abhisit Vejjajiva prime minister of, despite having been born in Newcastle?
What school did both Hank Marvin and Bruce Welch attend?
What is Michael Carrick and Alan Shearer's profession?
What prize did Peter Higgs win?
What did John Dunn invent?
What city was former WWE NXT champion Neville born in?
where is the Victoria and Albert Museum located?
how many permanent objects are located there?
when was the Victoria and Albert museum founded?
Who is the museum named for?
In which London borough is the Victoria and Albert Museum located?
In what year was the Victoria and Albert Museum founded?
Which monarchs was the Victoria and Albert Museum named after?
Which department sponsors the Victoria and Albert Museum?
In which year did the museum started charging free admission fees?
How many acres does the V&A cover?
How many galleries does the V&A have?
How many years does the V&A's collections span?
Which cultures are represented in the V&A's collections?
The V&A owns the largest collection of which period in sculptural art history?
The V&A has its origins in which world exposition?
Who was the V&A's first director?
What was the museum originally called?
Where was the V&A transferred to from its original location at Marlborough House?
Which German architect was asked to produce a design for the museum?
Who officially opened the V&A?
What is the exact date of the V&A's official opening?
Who is known as the first Keeper of Fine Art Collection at the V&A?
The use of gas lighting made what possible the year after the museum officially opened?
In which year did the Royal College of Art gained full independence from the V&A?
When was the Britain Can Make It exhibition held?
How many visitors did the Britain Can Make It exhibition attract?
Who organized the Britain Can Make It exhibition?
The success of the Britain Can Make It exhibition led to the planning of what exhibition in 1951?
Most of the museum's collection had been returned by which year?
What did the V&A present in July 1973 as part of its youth outreach programme?
Which musical group did the V&A present in July 1973 as part of its youth outreach programme?
The V&A's youth outreach programme was a hallmark of whose directorship?
Which musical genre did the progressive folk-rock band Gryphon presented at a concert/lecture at the V&A?
The V&A is looking to open a branded gallery in which city in Scotland?
What is the estimated cost of the V&A branded gallery?
Where in Dundee will the gallery be located?
What will V&A Dundee focus on?
When could V&A Dundee?
What was the building that formerly occupied the V&A's present site called?
What was the first building erected that still forms part of the museum?
Who designed the Turner and Vernon galleries that were built in 1858-9?
In which year were the North and South Courts opened?
What does the Secretariat Wing house?
Who was the designer of the Oriental Courts?
What art historical style was used in the decoration for the northern part of the museum?
Who designed the bronze doors used as the main entrance to the museum?
What famous English physicist and mathematician was depicted in the main bronze door entrance of the museum?
What Italian painter was depicted in the main bronze door entrance of the museum?
Who were responsible for the interior decorations of the Green Dining Room?
Who designed the ceiling and stained-glass windows of the Green Dining Room?
Who was responsible for the decorations of the Centre Refreshment Room?
Who designed and sculpted the marble fireplace in the Centre Refreshment Room?
Who was responsible for the decorations of the Grill Room?
Who was brought it to work on the museum after the death of Captain Francis Fowke?
What was the Henry Cole Wing previously called?
What stone was used for the staircase designed by J.W. Wild?
What part of the V&A collection does the Henry Cole Wing houses?
In which year did the Sackler Center open?
What technique was used to decorate the east side of the building?
Who designed the wrought iron gates that was used to embellish the east side of the building?
Where on the side are the two Cast Courts located?
Where is the sculpture gallery now located?
Who designed the plaster work in the Art Library?
Who designed the main façade that stretches along Cromwell Gardens?
What building materials were used to build the main façade?
How long does the main façade stretch along Cromwell Gardens?
What late Gothic architectural sculptural feature is found on the tower above the main entrance?
Statues of British artists adorn which part of the tower above the main entrance?
Who sculpted the representations of Prince Albert and Queen Victoria found in the main entrance?
How many levels of galleries do the façades surround?
Who designed the Entrance Hall and Rotunda?
What building material does the entrance hall and flanking staircases use predominantly?
Which British monarch appears above the frame around the arches and entrance?
Which part of the museum received the first major post-war work?
What did the museum acquire from the Royal College of Science?
What was constructed between 1978 and 1982 to link the Henry Cole wing to the rest of the museum?
Who designed the iron gates that decorate the new entrance building?
What was intended for the site of the former boiler house?
Which gallery was redesigned in the 1990s and later improved in 2002?
What was restored in the sculpture gallery during its renovated in 2006?
What was the title given to the major project to redesign all the galleries in the museum?
A subway tunnel from the museum leads to which tube station?
Who designed the new Medieval and Renaissance galleries which opened in 2009?
Who redesigned the central garden?
The redesigned central garden opened in 2005 with what new moniker?
What shape is the water feature in the John Madejski Garden?
The steps around the water feature can be drained for what uses?
Which tree species is planted in the two corners by the north facade?
In which year did the V&A opened the first permanent architectural history gallery in the UK?
Which institution did the V&A partnered with to open the first permanent architectural history gallery in the UK?
Approximately how many architectural drawings does the V&A hold in its collection?
What collection was transferred to the museum when the new architectural history gallery opened?
Approximately how many architectural photographs does the V&A hold in its collection?
The RIBA's drawing collection of what Italian architect is considered the largest in the world?
Which lone female architect listed above is represented in the collection?
Approximately how many drawings of the Italian architect Andrea Palladio is in the RIBA collection?
Which architect, famous for designing London's St. Paul Cathedral, is represented in the RIBA collection?
Which architect, famous for the India Gate in New Delhi, is represented in the RIBA collection?
Which part of London was Sir Paul Pindar's house, whose façade now resides in the V&A collection, located?
Sir Paul Pindar's house survived which 17th century disaster?
When is Sir Pindar's house dated?
Included in the V&A collection is dormer window dated 1523-35 from which European chateau?
A column from which Moorish palace and fortress complex in Granada, Spain, is included in the V&A collection?
Approximately how many items from the Islamic world are held in the V&A collection?
In which year did the Jameel Gallery of Islamic Art opened?
What is considered the centerpiece of the Jameel Gallery of Islamic Art?
Some of the objects held in the Jameel Gallery of Islamic Art come from which European country?
In which year was the Salting Bequest?
Approximately how many objects comprise the museum's collections of South and South-East Asian art?
Approximately how many textiles comprise the museum's collections of South and South-East Asian art?
Approximately how many paintings comprise the museum's collections of South and South-East Asian art?
In which year did the gallery of Indian art open?
Who is the gallery of Indian art named after?
Approximately how many works of art are included in the Far Eastern collections?
Which countries are represented in the Far Eastern collections?
What is the name of the gallery devoted to Chinese art?
In which year did the gallery devoted to Chinese art open?
Most of the Chinese works of art in the Far Eastern collections date from which two dynasties?
Which company is the gallery of Japanese art named after?
In which year did the gallery of Japanese art open?
The sculpture of Amida Nyorai that is included in the V&A's Japanese art collection is dated to which century?
Most of the objects in the Japanese art collection is dated to which time period?
Suzuki Chokichi's incense burner dated 1875 is made of what from material?
Tibetan art from which period is represented in the V&A collection?
Which South Asian island nation is represented in the V&A collection?
The influence of India can be seen in which religious art objects from Thailand, Burma and Cambodia?
Some of the museum's collection of Korean boxes are inlaid with what objects?
Some of the combs in the V&A collection of South East Asian art is made of what material?
The Codex Forster is a collection of notebooks by which famous Italian Renaissance polymath?
What are the three parchment-bound manuscripts of the Codex Forster called?
Approximately how books did Alexander Dyce bequeathed to the museum?
In which year did Alexander Dyce bequeathed his books to the museum?
In which year did John Forster bequeathed his large collection of books to the museum?
The papers of which famous English Victorian author are collected in the library?
The papers of which famous English writer of children's books such as The Tale of Peter Rabbit are collected in the museum?
The V&A library's collection of illuminated manuscripts are dated to which centuries?
What does the Armagnac manuscript in the V&A library archive depict?
Who produced the illumination for the 1524 Charter that is in the V&A library archive?
The National Art Library at the V&A is known by what other name?
What cataloging system was used by the National Art Library from the 1980s to the 1990s?
What archival system is used for all material at the National Art Library?
What type of item is the mostly likely to show in the V&A computer system?
What is the search feature on the V&A website called?
In which year did the V&A's Word and Image Department began a large scale digitization project?
What was the digitization project called?
The title of the digitization project was a reference to which artist?
Approximately how many images were digitized during the first year of the digitization project?
What is the second phase of the digitization project?
Who purchased or commissioned the works of European artists included the British galleries of the V&A?
Some non-British works in the British galleries were imported from which continent?
Which Italian that is credited with the creating the Baroque style of sculpture is represented in the V&A's British galleries?
Which artist who had a major influence on the Gothic Revival is represented in the V&A's British galleries?
What type of works from Asia are included in the V&A's British galleries?
What led to the production of tea paraphernalia such as china and caddies during the Georgian period?
What British cultural trend during the Georgian is linked to design during the same period?
Who is considered the leading figure in the Arts and Crafts movement?
The entrepreneurs Josiah Wedgwood, Matthew Boulton and Eleanor Coade were influenced by what manufacturing process developed during the Industrial Revolution?
A reaction against industrialiazation contributed to the development of what artistic movement in the late 19th centurY
Which Ancient Roman monument is replicated in full-scale in the Cast Courts?
What was done to the Trajan's Column replica to fit it under the ceiling?
Which sculpture by Michelangelo has a full-size replica in the Cast Courts?
The Cast Courts display plaster casts of what objects?
How is the plaster replica of Verrocchio's David displayed in the Cast Courts?
In which year are the Meissen Vulture in the V&A collection dated?
Who designed the Möllendorff Dinner Service?
In which year was Möllendorff Dinner Service designed?
In which year was the Salting Bequest made?
Which part of the V&A collection did the Salting Bequest enhanced?
Which three famous British potters are represented the the V&A ceramics collection?
From which countries were the V&A's collection of Delftware produced?
What are the largest objects in the V&A ceramics and glass collection?
The largest objects in the V&A ceramics and glass collection were produced during which time period?
The largest objects in the V&A ceramics and glass collection were produced in which countries?
How many years does the V&A glass collection cover?
Approximately how many items are in the glass collection of the V&A?
Where did the earliest item in the V&A glass collection come from?
The Art Deco style of glassware is represented by which artist?
The Art Noveau style of glassware is represented by which two artists?
When was the main gallery of the V&A's ceramics and glass collection redesigned?
Who was responsible for the glass balustrade on the staircase and mezzanine in the main gallery?
When was the main gallery for the V&A's contemporary glass collection opened?
Whose chandelier grace the rotunda at the V&A's main entrance?
To which century is the glass beaker called Luck of Edenhall dated?
Approximately how many British drawings are included in the V&A collection?
Approximately how many old masters works are included in the V&A collection?
Which famous Germain Renaissance painter and printmaker is represented in the drawings collection of the V&A?
Which famous Dutch artist who painted The Night Watch is represented in the drawings collection of the V&A?
Which famous French artist who painted the Grande Odalisque of 1814 is represented in the drawings collection of the V&A?
Approximately how many items are in the costume collection of the V&A?
Which department houses the works on paper of the costume collection?
Why is the collection dominated by fashionable clothes made for special occasions?
In which year did the V&A received the Talbot Hughes collection?
The Talbot Hughes collection was a gift from which company?
When did the V&A acquired the Costiff collection?
The Costiff collection comprised costumes designed by which British fashion icon?
How many costumes were in the Costiff collection?
What costumes collection did the V&A acquired in 2002?
Which examples of fashion does the museum continue to acquire for its collection?
From which period did the objects in the Soulages collection come from?
When was the Soulages collection acquired?
What items comprise the John Jones Collection?
In which year was the John Jones Collection left to the museum?
What was the value of the John Jones Collection when it was left to the museum?
To which year has the Antwerp City Hall doors in the V&A collection been dated?
To whom has the Antwerp City Hall doors in the V&A collection been attributed?
To which year has the Rococo Augustus Rex Bureau Cabinet been dated?
From which country did the Rococo Augustus Rex Bureau Cabinet come from?
Which husband and wife modern furniture design team are represented in the V&A furniture collection?
Approximately how many items comprise the jewelry collection of the V&A?
The earliest items in the jewelry collection come from which ancient civilization?
In which year was Reverend Chauncy Hare Townshend's collection of gems was bequeathed to the museum?
Approximately how many gems in Reverend Chauncy Hare Townshend's collection was given to the museum?
Who funded the new jewelry gallery that opened in 2008?
The silver and gold collection of the V&A is divided into which categories?
To which year is the earliest known piece of English silver with a dated hallmark is dated?
How many tons does the Hereford Screen weigh?
Who designed the Hereford Screen?
Approximately how many silver and gold objects does the V&A have it its collection?
To which year is the Gloucester Candlestick dated?
Which material is the Gloucester Candlestick made from?
Whose relics reside in the Becket Casket?
To which year is the Becket Casket dated?
Which material is the Becket Casket made from?
Approximately how many names were signed on an online petition on the Parliamentary website in response to the closing of the Musical Instruments gallery?
Which Member of Parliament explained how the museum would preserve the collection and keep it available to the public?
Which museum would receive items on loans from the Musical Instruments gallery?
Approximately how many musical instruments were loaned to the Horniman Museum?
In which year was the Musical Instruments gallery closed?
Approximately how many British oil paintings does the museum have?
Approximately how many European oil paintings does the museum have?
Approximately how many British watercolours are in the V&A collection?
Who has loaned the Raphael Cartoons to the museum?
Who painted the retable of St. George that is in the V&A collection?
In which year did John Sheepshanks donated a large collection of paintings?
How many paintings did John Sheeshanks give to the museum?
What was the goal of John Sheepshanks considerable bequest to the museum?
An 1821 full size oil sketch of which famous British painting was donated by John Sheepshank's daughter in 1888?
The paintings donated by John Sheepshanks were by artists of which nationality?
In which galleries are the French paintings donated by Jones displayed?
Whose 1758 portrait by François Boucher was part of Jones bequest?
What was one example of a non-French painting was included in the Jones bequest of 1882?
Whose portrait by François Clouet was included in the Jones bequest of 1882?
Who created the photographic series titled Animal Locomotion?
In which year was the Animal Locomotion collection created?
How many photographic plates comprise the Animal Locomotion collection?
What do the Animal Locomotion photographs capture?
Whose society portraits from the late 19th to early 20th centuries does the V&A hold?
The V&A has the world's most comprehensive collection of sculptures from which period?
Approximately how many objects are in the V&A sculpture collection?
Which time period does the sculpture collection cover?
Which uses of sculpture are represented in the collection?
With which museum does the V&A co-owns Canova's The Three Graces?
Which c1622-23 sculpture by Bernini are included in the sculpture collection?
What is the largest item from Italy that is part of the sculpture collection?
Who designed the largest item from Italy that is part of the V&A sculpture collection?
To which period is the largest item from Italy that is included in the sculpture collection dated?
Approximately how many works by Rodin are part of the museum collection?
Who donated Rodin's works to the V&A?
In which year were Rodin's works given to the V&A?
Britain's support of France in which war led to Rodin donating many of his sculptures to the V&A?
Which sculpture by Rodin was not donated by the artist?
Which British sculptor and a leading member of the New Sculpture movement is represented in the the V&A collection?
Which British sculptor whose work include the Queen Victoria memorial in front of Buckingham Palace is included in the V&A collection?
Which English sculptor who became the leading portrait sculptor in Regency era Britain is represented in the V&A collection?
What sort of continental sculptors are represented in the British Galleries of the V&A?
Who were the sculpture galleries that opened in 2006 named after?
To which year does the new sculpture galleries now encompass?
How are the galleries overlooking the garden arranged?
Which two British sculptors are now represented with the opening of the new galleries?
Which museum was among those that loaned more modern works for the new sculpture galleries?
Approximately how many items are in the V&A's textiles collection?
Which continents are represented in the V&A's textiles collection?
What is the time period represented in the museum's textiles collection?
Which region is represented the most in the textiles collection?
Besides countries of origin and date of production, how are the textiles classified?
What is the oldest surviving European tapestry in the V&A collection?
In which century were the four Devonshire Hunting Tapestries woven?
Where were the Devonshire Hunting Tapestries made?
What do the Devonshire Hunting Tapestries depict?
Which leading English tapestry workshop in the late 17th century and early 18th century is represented in the V&A collection?
When is the Sicilian Tristan Quilt dated?
Who designed The Forest tapestry in the V&A collection?
In which year was the The Forest tapestry created?
The Art Deco period of textiles works is represented by which American artist?
A rug by which Russian-born British designer is included in the V&A collection?
What is the former name of the V&A Theatre & Performance galleries?
In which year did the V&A Theatre & Performance galleries open?
What collection does the V&A Theatre & Performance galleries hold?
The theatre collection starts from the time of which famous Elizabethan playwright?
The material in the V&A theatre collection is available for which use?
Which area is responsible for the long-term preservation of the V&A collections?
What two environmental conditions are controlled in the museum?
What major category of conservation result in an object that is more attractive and more comprehensible to the viewer?
Besides the V&A's, whose collections are under the responsibility of conservators at the V&A?
What type of conservation include providing advice on the handling of items?
What company owns the American Broadcasting Company?
In what year did ABC stylize it's logo as abc?
In what borough of New York City is ABC headquartered?
On what streets is the ABC headquarters located
Disney-ABC Television Group is a subsidiary of what division of the Walt Disney Company?
When did ABC first start?
What kind of network was ABC when it first began?
When did ABC first get in to television broadcasts?
In the 1980s, what cable sports channel did ABC purchase?
What company did the ABC network's parent company merge with in the 1980s?
How many affiliated stations does ABC currently have?
In 2007, what company purchased ABC Radio properties?
How many of the network's stations are owned-and-operated?
What entity in Canada handles substitution regulations for television shows?
ABC news provides content for radio stations owned by what company?
What company owned NBC in the 1930s?
What two radio networks did RCA own?
What kind of markets did NBC Red serve?
What kind of programs did NBC Red test?
Which NBC radio network was tasked with testing new programs?
What company filed a complaint with the FCC in 1934 concerning problems establishing new stations?
In what year did the FCC begin an investigation in to the operation of radio networks in America
In what year did the FCC publish it's report?
What was the main radio network in the 1940s in America?
What radio network was RCA using to eliminate competition in 1940?
To whom did RCA mandate the sale of NBC blue to in 1941?
What network was converted into an independent subsidiary by RCA in 1942?
What investment firm offered to buy the NBC Blue network from Mark Woods?
Who was RCA president in 1942?
How much money did Dillon, Read & Co offer Mark Woods for NBC Blue?
What candy company did Edward John Noble own?
When was the sale of NBC Blue to Edward John Noble authorized?
Who did Noble acquire the rights to the American Broadcasting Company name from?
What position did Mark Woods take on at the new American Broadcasting Company?
When did Mark Woods leave ABC?
What new technology allowed ABC to pre-record its shows?
ABC aired symphony performances by what conductor?
What network was known for dramas such as Sherlock Holmes?
Who was a big star that ABC was able to attract because of Magnetophon technology?
ABC continued NBC Blue's tradition of what?
How much did Disney sell it's stake in Eurosport for in 2000?
What network was launched by ABC in 2004?
When was ABC1 discontinued because of low viewership?
What developmental network was discontinued after the shutdown of ABC1?
What country is ABC broadcast in, in contrast to Disney's other channels?
When did ABC Films begin selling programs to other networks?
What ended the need for ABC to maintain interests in other countries?
Where were ABC's international networks mainly situated in the 1970s?
Why was ABC forced to sell its interests in international networks in the 70s?
What was the first international event broadcast by ABC?
What country did ABC expand in to in the mid-1960s?
What Japanese network did ABC purchase a stake in in 1951?
Why was NBC unable to broadcast the coronation of Queen Elizabeth II?
Why was CBS unable to broadcast the coronation of Queen Elizabeth II?
What television specials did ABC acquire the rights to in 2000?
Which awards show has its rights rotated among the four major networks on a yearly basis?
When did a Charlie Brown Christmas debut?
What movie awards show does ABC currently hold the rights to?
What Peanuts special is Halloween-themed?
When did ABC begin airing Dick Clark's New Year's Rockin' Eve?
Who succeeded Dick Clark on ABC's New Year's broadcasts?
When did ABC begin broadcasting the Miss America Pageant?
Where was New Year's Rockin' Eve hosted?
What network assumed the rights to the Miss America Pageant in 2006?
What series is the longest running program in ABC history?
When did Good Morning America begin airing?
Which Proctor and Gamble produced soap opera did ABC air?
What are ABC's current daytime talk shows?
When did General Hospital begin airing?
ABC carries weekend events for what extreme sports competition?
When did ESPN take over responsibility for ABC's sports division?
When is sports programming provided by ABC on Saturday afternoons?
For what league does ABC broadcast games on Christmas day?
During summers, for what tournaments does ABC air highlight programs?
Who was ABC's vice-president of engineering?
Which channels did Frank Marx think would be requisitioned by the U.S. Army?
In what year did ABC submit licenses for 5 television stations?
Which channel did the 5 applications request for broadcast?
In 1952, how many television stations were there in the United States?
How many stations did Boston have in 1952?
Who was ABC's third major rival in 1949?
In 1949, ABC had less coverage than what competing networks?
In 1949, UPT was forced to become an independent entity by whom?
Who was UPT forced to separate themselves from in 1949?
How many affiliates did ABC have in 1949?
In 1951, rumors claimed that ABC might be sold to what network?
Noble acquired a loan from what entity to keep ABC solvent in 1951?
Who was the president of UPT in 1951?
Who was the founder of CBS?
When was the agreement to acquire ABC approved by UPT's board?
When was the FCC's sixth report and order released?
When did the FCC approve UPT's purchase of ABC?
When UPT bough ABC, what was the merged company called?
Where was American Broadcasting-Paramount Theatres, Inc headquartered after the merger?
When did WJZ-TV in NYC begin broadcasting?
When did the FCC freeze incoming applications for new stations?
Where did ABC construct it's transmitter for its affiliate station in San Francisco?
ABC bought 20 acres of land in Hollwood in 1949 that would become what studio?
When did ABC premier the Flintstones?
What decade marked ABC's transition to color programming?
Who were the creators of the Flintstones?
When did ABC begin making family-oriented series?
When did Walt Disney Productions purchase ABC's shares in the Disneyland theme park?
What network approached Walt Disney about producing color broadcasts of his anthology series?
When did ABC and Disney's television relationship lapse?
In what year did ABC resume its television relationship with Disney?
In 2000, ABC started an internet based campaign focused on what?
Who was hired to produce ABC's 2001-02 identity?
What colors was the 2001 ABC logo?
What is the nickname for ABC's logo from the 2000 campaign?
Who designed ABC's 1998 new graphic design?
In what year did ABC stop using it's four-note jingle for promotion?
What image campaign was the new four-note jingle for ABC based around?
Where is the ABC four-note jingle still in use?
In which season did the ABC logo first appear as an on-screen bug?
When did the logo bug begin appearing throughout the entire program for ABC shows?
In what year was the 40th anniversary of ABC's founding?
What slogan accompanied the 40th anniversary logo for ABC?
In what year did the first ABC identification card have a 3D appearance?
What color was the background for ABC's 1977 ID sequence?
In what color was the dot represented in ABC's 1977 ID sequence?
What graphic designer designed the ABC logo in it's most known form?
What typeface are the letters in the iconic ABC logo reminiscent of?
Who was the Bauhaus typeface originally designed by in the 1920s?
When did Paul Rand's iconic ABC logo first debut?
What entity was rumored to be sold by ABC in between May and September 2005?
When did ABC announce the restructure of ABC radio?
How many divisions was ABC radio restructured into in 2005?
In what year did ABC's viewership end in 4th place behind the other major networks?
What new Medical Drama helped ABC jump to second place in the ratings during the 2004-2005 season?
Who was named president of Disney-ABC television group in 2004?
Who did ESPN and ABC sign an eight year deal with in 2005?
When was the new two-year affiliate agreement approved?
Who was the Chairman and CEO of Disney in 2002?
What hit reality series debuted for ABC in 2002?
What reality series was the first spinoff of the Bachelor for ABC?
What cable company removed ABC stations from it's systems in certain markets in April 2000?
Who did the FCC rule in favor of in the April 2000 dispute between Time Warner Cable and ABC?
Which major network was the most watched for the 2000-01 season?
When was Time Warner cable forced to restore ABC stations to affected markets?
What year did ABC's "TGIF" end?
To what network did Sabrina the Teenage Witch move in 2000?
Which network began airing the TGIF comedy Family Matters for the 1997-98 season?
When did ABC first premiere Who Wants to Be a Millionaire?
Who originally hosted Who Wants to Be a Millionaire for ABC?
What company relaunched Who Wants to Be a Millionaire as a syndicated program?
Who originally hosted the syndicated version of Who Wants to Be a Millionaire?
When was the Disney and ABC merger first announced?
What did Disney rename Capital City/ABC after first acquiring the company?
Who did Disney sell the four newspapers that ABC controlled to?
Who took Thomas Murphy's place after the Disney acquisition of ABC?
What Aaron Sorkin created show did ABC debut in 1998?
For which TV season did color first become a dominant format?
In the 1965-66 season, what place did ABC find it's self among the other networks in ratings?
What was Goldenson's 1991 book about ABC titled?
When did ABC's New York flagship stations change their call signs?
Where did the ABC New York flagship stations move their facilities to in 1953?
The WJZ callsign would then be assigned to an ABC affiliate in what city in 1959?
Who was appointed to be ABC's president by Noble in 1950?
Goldenson proposed a merger between UPT and what network in October 1954?
Under Goldenson's merger plan, what would the new entity be named?
How much money was to go to DuMont Television Network under Goldenson's merger plan?
Of what hollywood film company was UPT a subsidiary of when it merged with ABC?
What Western was a flagship program for ABC around 1954?
What ABC comedy had the record for the longest running comedy until being passed by the Simpsons in 2002?
What television show for ABC was an adaptation of the 1947 film Wyoming Kid?
What program for ABC was a remake of the film The Boy from Oklahoma?
Of all their agreements with Hollywood producers in the 50s, which was the most iconic for ABC?
In what series did ABC present it's 1950s film adaptations in?
What was Walt Disney's brother's name?
How much did Walt Disney want ABC to invest in Disneyland?
In what year did ABC agree to finance Disneyland?
What was the first Disney program televised on ABC as a result of the Disney-ABC agreement?
Who lead the 1968 special programming for ABC Radio's FM stations?
Who was the ABC Radio president in 1968?
What was the name for the new radio concept designed by Allen Shaw?
How many ABC music stations were owned-and-operated in 1968?
In what year did ABC launch the Movie of the Week?
For which ABC Movie of the Week film did Steven Spielberg first gain success?
When did the Steven Spielberg movie Duel first debut?
What was the average budget for ABC Movie of the Week films?
In what decade did ABC finish transitioning to color?
The 1970s allowed which network to move in to first place in the ratings?
What kind of data did ABC begin using in the 1970s to better target ads and programming for certain audiences?
What football program was debuted by ABC in 1970?
When did Sunday Night Football premiere on NBC?
When Sunday Night Football premiered, to which network did Monday Night Football move?
What kind of audience share did MNF allow ABC to attain according to Goldenson?
In what year did the FCC vote for the Financial Interest and Syndication Rules?
What year did the Financial Interest and Syndication rules result in ABC's decision to split ABC Films into two companies?
Which new subdivision of ABC films produced programming for U.S. syndication?
What did the Public Health Cigarette Smoking Act ban?
When did the ban on cigarette advertising take effect for television networks?
Who was ABC Great States sold to in 1974?
Who was named the president and CEO of ABC after Goldenson suffered a heart attack?
When did Michael Eisner first join ABC?
What ABC series originated as short segment on Love, American Style?
What was Michael Eisner's main credit in his time at ABC?
What company did Eisner become president of when he left ABC in 1976?
Who was the President of ABC television in 1976?
Who was the first president and director of programming for ABC Entertainment?
In 1974, what detective series debuted on ABC?
When did Good Morning America first debut?
What position did Fred Silverman leave ABC to take in 1978?
What spinoff of Happy Days debuted in 1976?
What television trend are Charlies Angels and Three's Company an example of?
The Roots miniseries was based on a novel by what author?
Who produced the comedy-drama The Love Boat?
How many seasons did The Love Boat run for?
During which season did ABC first take the lead spot in television rating?
What was the first television series to feature an openly gay character?
Who was named the president of ABC News in 1977?
Besides ABC News, what other division was Roone Arledge president of?
What is the nickname for the ABC facility built at Columbus Avenue and West 66th Street?
When was 7 Lincoln Square completed?
When was the newsmagazine 20/20 first created?
Who was first appointed at the anchor of 20/20?
Which female anchor from Today joined Hugh Downs on 20/20?
Who did ABC sell it's recording division to in 1979?
What channel did ABC proposed to compete with cable news company CNN?
What news network did ABC launch in July 2004?
In August 1994, which Flint, Michigan affiliate did ABC purchase?
In August 1994, what Toledo, Ohio affiliate did ABC purchase?
A strike by what entity resulted in a halt to production for network programs in the 2007-2008 season?
What game show debuted on ABC in 2007 as a replacement for striking programs?
Who started rumors in 2008 that ABC would sell its ten owned-and-operated stations?
Disney-ABC Television group merged with ABC Studios and what other entity in 2009?
After the merger of Disney-ABC Television group, ABC Studios, and ABC Entertainment, what was the resulting entity named?
In 2009, what did Citadel Communications rebrand it's ABC Radio brand as?
On December 22nd 2009, ABC reached an agreement with Apple to make ABC shows available on what service?
What year marked the lowest ratings for the drama Lost?
In what year did Lost first debut?
Ugly Betty's ratings fell dramatically after the series movie to what night?
What night did ABC move Ugly Betty to in an attempt to boost the series ratings?
When did the FCC begin imposing fin-syn rules?
ABC created what company as a syndication distributor in response to the FCC's fin-syn rules?
ABC created what company as a production company in response to fin-syn rules?
What company did Worldvision sell a portion of it's catalogue to in 1990?
What ABC division handles domestic television distribution?
What was Disney-ABC Domestic Television previously known as?
What was Disney-ABC International Television previously known as?
What library contains the Selmur Productions catalogue?
What were the first two stations to carry ABC's programming?
In March 2015, how many owned-and-operated stations did ABC have?
How many stations did ABC have affiliation agreements with in 2015?
What percentage of American households did ABC reach in March 2015?
When was ABC's first logo introduced?
What was ABC's logo based on after the ABC-UPT merger was finalized?
When did ABC adopt it's iconic circle logo?
In what year was Supernanny canceled?
In 2011, which program became the only ABC broadcast in 4:3 standard definition?
Since January 2012, all ABC programming has been presented in what format?
What was the program in the first Children's program block to be broadcast in HD?
What format is ABC's master feed transmitted in?
What format do Hearst Television's ABC affiliates transmit in?
How many affiliates carry the ABC network feed in 480i standard definition?
What is the native format for the Walt Disney Company's US TV properties?
What was the only drama extended for a second season for the 2010-11 schedule?
What was the only comedy to earn a second season for the 2010-11 schedule?
What network did ABC beat out for third place in television ratings in 2010-11?
What drama program was canceled by ABC after a bad midseason run in 2010-11?
What soap operas did ABC cancel in 2011?
Who did ABC sell the rights to All My Children and One Life to Live to?
On what service were All My Children and One Life to Live revived on for one season?
What talk show replaced One Life to Live?
2011-12 saw ABC drop to 4th in ratings among what important demographic?
In 2013-14, NBC finished in first place in the 18-49 demographic for the first time since when?
In 2013-14, NBC finished behind what network in the ratings?
What Comic Book series did ABC debut in 2013-14?
What program that aired between Last Man Standing and Shark Tank was cancelled by ABC in 2013?
What two comedies were featured on ABC's new Wednesday comedy lineup?
Shark Tank was based on what other reality show?
What day of the week did Shark Tank debut on?
In 2012-13, ABC debuted a comedy Last Man Standing starring who?
Who departed as president of Capital Cities/ABC in 1994?
Who initially took over as president of Capital Cities/ABC after Daniel Burke left?
What crime drama debuted on ABC in September 1994?
Who was the creator of NYPD Blue?
How many seasons did NYPD Blue last?
When were the Financial Interest and Syndication Rules repealed?
What French animation studio did ABC purchase in 1993?
What cable provider did ABC reach an agreement with in 1993 to carry it's owned-and-operated stations in ABC O&O markets?
What was ABC's viewership share in 1993?
What radio station did ABC purchase in May 1960?
When did WLS launch a lineup of ABC radio programs?
What Canadian investor sought ABC's help in launching a station in 1960?
What project did Leonard Goldenson offer to invest in before the Canadian Radio-Television Commission ruled against ABC?
ABC debuted what sports program on April 29, 1961?
Who created ABC's Wide World of Sports?
Who originally produced Wide World of Sports for ABC?
ABC purchased which of Edgar Scherick's company?
What was the corporate entity American Broadcasting-Paramount Theatres renamed in 1965?
What was the name of the blind date concept program debuted by ABC in 1966?
What gameshow featuring newly married people was debuted by ABC in July 1966?
At what address did Goldenson secure a new headquarters for ABC?
What percentage of prime-time TV viewership did the three big networks represent in 1980?
What drama from Aaron Spelling debuted on ABC in the 80s?
What was a Happy Days spinoff that debuted in the 1980s on ABC?
What channel did ABC launch in 1981 that focused on cultural and arts programming?
What entity did ABC sell KXYZ to in 1983?
In 1984, ABC purchased 15% of what company's shares in ESPN?
In 1984, the ABC arts channel ARTS was merged with what other channel?
What was the resulting channel of the ARTS merger called?
Who succeeded Thomas Murphy as president in 1990?
What position at ABC did Thomas Murphy stay on for after stepping down as president?
How much did Capital Cities/ABC report in revenues in 1990?
In 1990, what was the longest running primetime entertainment program in ABC's history?
What comedy featuring stand up comedian Tim Allen debuted in 1991?
What soap opera is currently featured in ABC's daytime programming?
What two talk shows are currently featured during daytime programming on ABC?
Between what times does Good Morning America air on ABC?
Who hosts the weeknight talk show featured on ABC networks?
What are the only states where ABC doesn't have a licensed affiliate?
What is the low-power station that serves Birmingham, Alabama for ABC?
What ABC station in South Bend, Indiana maintains digital simulcasts on a subchannel?
What is the ABC affiliate that serves Lima, Ohio?
What entity began producing television series for ABC in 1962?
What entity was Touchstone Television reorganized into in 2007?
Which of ABC's main production facilities is located in Hollywood, CA?
Which of ABC's main production facilities is located in New York City?
What studio does ABC own at 1500 Broadway in NYC?
What programs are broadcast from the Times Square Studios for ABC?
A block of West End Avenue that houses an ABC News building was renamed for what ABC anchor?
What show did Peter Jennings anchor for ABC?
What is ABC's traditional VOD service currently named?
The Walt Disney Company is a part owner of what VOD streaming service?
When did Hulu begin offering ABC's programs for streaming?
In 2009, Disney reached an agreement to buy what percentage stake in Hulu?
When are recent episodes of ABC shows typically made available on VOD services?
Disney-ABC Television group implemented restrictions for Hulu and WATCH ABC that made episodes available only after how many days after initial broadcast?
What does ABC on Demand disallow for online viewers?
When did Disney-ABC Television group implement restrictions on Hulu and WATCH ABC to encourage live viewing?
In 2013, ABC's identity was revamped by what design agency?
How many variants is the new ABC logo currently displayed in?
What new typeface was created for ABC for use in advertising?
What network uses a red version of the new ABC logo?
How many primary affiliates did ABC have in 1954?
How many primary affiliates did CBS have in 1954?
What important legislation was passed by Congress for the television industry in 1961?
The All-Channel Receiver Act mandated the support of what kind of tuning?
ABC had secondary status on the existing stations in what Ohio town?
Relegation to secondary status for ABC resulted in viewership how much lower than their competitors, according to Goldenson?
The beginnings of digital television allowed what affiliate in Wheeling, West Virginia to begin airing ABC programs digitally?
Very small markets had to wait until what decade to support an ABC affiliate?
What was the Disneyland anthology series retitled in 1958?
What production company pitched The Untouchables to CBS in 1958?
Why did CBS turn down the pitch for The Untouchables?
When did the Untouchables debut on ABC?
What was the title of ABC's broadcast film program that debuted on Sundays in 1962?
What was ABC's revenue in 1962?
What production company produced the animated series The Flintstones for ABC?
What was the first series to be televised in color on ABC?
When did General Hospital first debut on ABC?
Leonard Goldenson announced a merger proposal with what company in December 1965?
What anitrust regulator had doubts about the ITT and ABC merger?
The merger between ITT and ABC was suspended after a complaint was filed by whom in July 1967?
When was the merger between ITT and ABC officially canceled?
In 1984 Thomas Murphy contacted Leonard Goldenson about merging ABC with what company?
How much did Capital Cities Communications purchase ABC and its properties for?
$500 Million was supplied for the Capital City - ABC merger by what investor?
Capital City and ABC sold the WXYZ-TV and WFTS-TV stations to what company?
New ownership rules by the FCC in 1985 allowed broadcasters to own a maximum of how many stations?
When did the merger between ABC and Capital Cities gain federal approval?
After the merger between ABC and Capital Cities was completed, what was the resulting company known as?
After the Capital Cities - ABC merger, Frederick Pierce was named to what position?
After the merger between ABC and Capital Cities, who became the vice president of ABC broadcasting?
In the wake of the ABC and Capital Cities merger, who was the president of ABC News and ABC Sports?
Which sitcom ended its broadcast run for ABC in 1983?
Which sitcom produced a spinoff for ABC after ending its run in 1984?
Which network regained the ratings lead in America in 1984?
What comedy for ABC ended its broadcast run in 1986?
ABC began to focus on what kind of series after NBC's success in 1984?
What comedy block debuted in 1989 for ABC?
What does "TGIF" stand for?
Most of the productions in the TGIF lineup were produced by what production company?
Miller-Boyett Productions was a studio affiliated with what company?
New broadcast regulations from the FCC in 1968 allowed companies to own a maximum of how many radio stations?
What was the first picture released by ABC Pictures?
Who was the film Charly produced by?
When was the ABC Pictures division eventually dissolved?
Where was ABC Marine World opened?
What kind of programs can be credited for ABC's success in the late 1950s?
How much did advertising revenue increase for ABC between 1953 and 1958?
What was the national viewership reach of ABC in 1958?
Who was the ABC Entertainment president in 1957?
Who hosted the bandstand show debuted on ABC in 1957?
What was the programming philosophy pioneered by ABC and Goldenson?
What ABC action series went up against NBC's variety shows in Fall 1957?
What magazine criticized ABC's programming strategy in May 1961?
What kind of shows were used as counterprogramming by ABC in the Fall of 1959?
What service did ABC launch in May 2013?
What were the first local stations to offer streams of their programming on WATCH ABC?
What company reached a deal to also stream its ABC affiliates?
What is the name of ESPN's streaming service that is analogous to WATCH ABC?
What broadcast group is the largest operator of ABC stations?
What is the biggest ABC subchannel affiliate by the size of markets?
What is the largest ABC station operator in terms of market reach?
How many affiliates does Sinclair Broadcast Group service or own?
How many ABC affiliates does the E. W. Scripps Company own?
What was the name for the imaging campaign ABC began in 2007?
Who developed the 2007 imaging campaign for ABC?
Red ribbons in the logo were used to represent which division of ABC?
Blue ribbons in the logo were used to represent which division of ABC?
What are the two ABC affiliates for Tampa, Florida?
What are the two ABC affiliates for Kansas City, Missouri?
What are the two ABC affiliates for Grand Rapids Michigan?
What was Tampa's primary ABC affiliate prior to 1994?
What do we call the empire that Genghis Khan founded?
Who did Genghis Khan unite before he began conquering the rest of Eurasia?
In which regions in particular did Genghis Khan's armies massacre civilians?
What areas did Genghis Khan control at the end of his life?
Which other empires or dynasties did Genghis Khan conquer?
Who did Genghis Khan assign as his successor?
What year did Genghis Khan die?
Which empire was the last one Genghis Khan conquered before he died?
Among whom was Genghis Khan's empire split after his death?
Where was Genghis Khan buried?
Where was Genghis Khan likely born?
Who was Genghis Khan's father?
What year was Temüjin, who became Genghis Khan, likely born?
Who might Temüjin have been named after?
What was Temüjin' sister's name?
Who were Temüjin's three full brothers?
What was the name of the wife arranged for Temüjin by his father?
Which tribe did Temüjin move in with at nine years of age?
Who was the head of the household that Temüjin joined when he was nine years old?
Which of Temüjin's brothers took up the role of male leader of the family?
Who would Begter have married when he came of age?
Who killed Begter, Temüjin's half-brother?
When was Temüjin's half-brother Begter killed?
Who captured and held Temüjin prisoner around 1177?
How was Temüjin kept imprisoned by the Tayichi'ud?
Which of his future general's fathers helped Temüjin escape the Tayichi'ud?
Which of his future generals joined forces with Temüjin around the time of his escape from the Tayichi'ud?
Where did Temüjin hide during his escape from the Tayichi'ud?
What was used to from political alliances among the Mongolian tribal confederations?
Who taught Temüjin early lessons about politics in Mongolia?
Which foreign forces often meddled in the Mongolian political scene?
What did Temüjin's mother emphasize in his lessons about Mongolia's volatile political climate?
What was the tribe of the woman Temüjin married when he was around 16 years old?
Who kidnapped Temüjin's first wife soon after they were married?
Who helped Temüjin rescue his wife from the Merkits?
What was the name of Temüjin's wife Börte's first son?
What year did Börte's give birth to Jochi?
How many sons did Börte bear Genghis Khan after Jochi?
What was the name of Börte's second male child?
What year did two of Ghengis Khan and Börte's sons die?
Which male child of Ghengis Khan and Börte was born last?
How many names of Ghengis Khan's daughters are known?
What is an anda?
With whom was Temüjin's first important alliance?
What tribe did Toghrul lead?
How many warriors did Toghrul provide Temüjin when his wife was captured?
Which of Temüjin's childhood friends did Toghrul suggest he also enlist?
Who did Jamukha support that were not part of Temüjin's power base?
Which shaman's proclamation aided Temüjin's rise?
When was Temüjin elected khan of the Mongols?
Which battle did Temüjin lose to Jamukha shortly after his election as khan?
Where was Temüjin's patron Toghrul exiled?
What was the name of Temüjin's laws?
What did Temüjin promise his followers in exchange for their obedience?
Who did Temüjin's mother adopt to help integrate the tribes he conquered?
What did Temüjin offer the people he conquered in order earn their loyalty?
To whom did Toghrul refuse to give his daughter in marriage, angering Temüjin?
Who did Toghrul join in a campaign against Temüjin?
Who escaped when Temüjin emerged victorious in his conflict with Toghrul?
What tribe fell apart after Temüjin defeated Toghrul?
Who protected Jamukha after he escaped the conflict with Temüjin?
What year was Jamukha elected Gür Khan?
What does the title Gür Khan mean?
Which well-known general abandoned Jamukha's coalition against Temüjin?
What year was Jamukha surrendered to Temüjin?
What did Temüjin offer Jamukha after the latter's defeat?
Why did Temüjin kill those of Jamukha's followers that had betrayed their leader?
What did Jamukha request from Temüjin instead of friendship?
What form of death did Jamukha hope Temüjin would allow him?
From whom did Genghis Khan learn seige warfare?
Which rival's tribes did Genghis Khan famously measure against the linchpin?
An important shaman was alleged to be trying to distance Genghis Khan from which of his brothers?
What aspect of the economy did Genghis Khan exploit for intelligence gathering?
Who was the ally of his father that Genghis Khan fell out as time passed?
By what year had Temüjin created a significant "Mongol" tribal alliance?
What is the term for a meeting of Mongol chiefs?
What title was given to Genghis Khan posthumously?
Who gave Genghis Khan the title Khadan?
Who made Temüjin khan of the Mongols?
What dynasty did Genghis Khan plan to attack after conquering Western Xia?
Who was the Jin dynasty defector who betrayed the location of the Jin army?
When did Genghis Khan capture the Jin dynasty capital?
Where did the Jin emporer relocate his capital after Genghis Khan overran the norther part of his empire?
Which of Genghis Khan's sons completed the conquest of the Jin dynasty?
Who took control of Qara Khitai after fleeing Temüjin's Mongol Empire?
What older dynasty was replaced by the Western Liao, or Qara Khitai?
How many soldiers did Genghis Khan send against Kuchlug and Qara Khitai?
Which young general did Genghis Khan send to conquer Qara Khitai?
What other moniker was Genghis Khan's general Jebe known by?
What strategy did Jebe's army use against Kuchlug and his supporters?
Where did Jebe's forces first defeat Kuchlug?
How far west did the Mongol Empire extend after Kuchlug's demise?
Which empire bordered the Mongol Empire to the west in 1218?
What kind of state was the Khwarezmia?
Who was the leader of the Khwarezmian dynasty in the early 1200s?
Who ordered the attack on the caravan of traders Genghis Khan send to Khwarezmia?
Which of Genghis Khan's ambassadors did the Shah have beheaded?
How many soldiers did Genghis Khan take with him to Khwarezmia?
What trading route joined Khwarezmia and the Mongol Empire?
What mountain range did Genghis Khan cross to enter the Khwarezmian Empire?
How many divisions comprised Genghis Khan's army in Khwarezmia?
Where did Jebe's division of Genghis Khan's army campaign in Khwarezmia?
Who led the third division in Khwarezmia alongside Genghis Khan himself?
Which area of Khwarezmia did the first and second divisions of the Mongol army target in a pincer attack?
What feature of the Shah's army enable the weary Mongol forces easy early victories?
Which town's massacre did Genghis Khan order in retribution for the treatment of his envoys?
What metal was used in Inalchuq's execution?
What did the Shah do when faced with defeat by Genghis Khan's forces?
Who did Genghis Khan charge with finding and punishing the Shah?
What was the capital of Khwarezmia before the Mongol invasion?
Where was the Khwarezmid capital moved after Genghis Khan's forces prevailed in Samarkand?
What does legend say Genghis Khan used to obliterate the Kharezmid emporer's place of birth?
What did the Mongols shield themselves with while attacking Samarkand?
How did Genghis Khan observed the surrender terms after Samarkand fell?
What victory symbols did the Mongols build on the plains outside Samarkand?
How did the leaders of the city of Bukhara respond to the Mongol attack?
Who continued to hold the citadel of Bukhara after the Mongols took the rest of the city?
Which residents of Bukhara were spared and sent back to Mongolia?
How did Genghis Khan describe himself to the people of Bukhara?
Who among the population of Bukhara became part of the Mongolian army?
What year did the Khwarezmian Empire fall to Genghis Khan?
Whose plan called for the Mongolian army to split in two after the Khwarezmian conquest?
Where did Jebe and Subutai spend the winter following the split of the Mongol army?
Where was the Kievian force that confronted Subutai's army defeated in 1223?
Who led the Kievian Rus' troops against Subutai's Mongol army?
Which Mongol leader completed the conquest of Kievan Rus'?
By what name was the Mongol army that finally conquered Bulgaria known?
Which two Mongol leaders added Persia to the Mongol Empire?
When did Subutai's army return to Mongolia?
Where did Jebe die?
In which year did Genghis Khan strike against the Tanguts?
What season was it when Genghis Khan took Xiliang-fu from the Tanguts?
Who won the battle near the Helan mountains?
What river did Genghis Khan cross before defeating the main Tangut army?
What omen was Genghis Khan reported to have seen assuring his coming victory against the Tanguts?
What was the name of the Tangut capital?
Who was the Tangut general who fought Genghis Khan at Deshun?
What weapon caused the wounds that killed Tangut general Ma Jianlong?
Where did Genghis Khan spend the summer after taking Deshun?
What did Genghis Khan do to the Tangut imperial family after their surrender?
The paternity of which of Genghis Khan's sons was disputed?
Which Mongol leader was most opposed to Jochi as Genghis Khan's successor?
Before which military campaign did Chagatai publicly dispute Jochi's paternity?
Who was appointed Genghis Khan's successor?
Which pair of Genghis Khan's sons were most rivalrous?
Which of Genghis Khan's sons was disqualified from being successor because of his unstable behavior?
Which's of Genghis Khan's successors could not be successor because of his age?
Which son did Genghis Khan view as his most dependable one?
Jochi's death occurred in what year?
Where did Jochi remain after Genghis Khan sent for his sons in the spring of 1223?
Which territory did Jochi try to protect that may have led to a dispute with his brothers?
Who did Jochi reportedly enlist to help him stop his father's massacres?
Why is Jochi's reported alliance with the Muslims historically suspect?
Genghis Khan was in the process of taking what capital city when he died?
What does the Secret History say Genghis Khan was doing when he sustained his mortal injuries?
What weapon did Marco Pole report as the cause of Genghis Khan's death?
Later chronicles of Genghis Khan's death implicate a princess from what empire in his death?
Which rival of the Mongols is suspected of inventing the story that Genghis Khan was murdered by a captured princess?
What was Genghis Khan's tribes burial custom?
Where is Genghis Khan's presumed to have been delivered?
What river is near Genghis Khan's likely place of burial?
What memorial was built years after Genghis Khan's death and burial?
What is the Mongolian name for the original place of the Genghis Khan mausoleum?
Which Buddhist monastery hosted the Genghis Khan mausoleum during the Japanese occupation?
Where did the Chinese Nationalists move the mausoleum away from advancing Chinese Communist forces?
When was the mausoleum returned to the Lord's Enclosure in Mongolia?
Who destroyed the most valuable relics in the mausoleum during the Cultural Revolution?
On which date was Genghis Khan's palace rediscovered by archeaologists?
What kind of water body is rumored to be obscuring Genghis Khan's burial site?
What two other rulers had their graves hidden under a river?
What animals may have been stampeded over Genghis Khan's grave site?
Who created the code that governed military and civilian conduct in the Mongol Empire?
What was the name of the Mongol Empire's legal code?
What was the guiding principle of the Mongol Empire code of conduct?
Who was exempt from the meritocratic principles of the Mongol Empire?
Who is an example of the diversity of leadership in the Mongol Empire?
What perk did religious leaders, teachers, and doctors get in the Mongol Empire?
Which of Genghis Khan's mentors practiced Christianity?
How was religion handled in the Mongol Empire?
What are examples of the various religions of Mongol tribes?
Which woman took a leadership role in the Mongol Empire while succession was being determined?
What is the modern term for the Mongolian policies supporting trade and communication?
Who is an example of a sedentary people who were not favored by the laws of the Mongol Empire?
What do some modern historians claim Genghis Khan sought to add his legal code at the end of his reign?
Which Khitan prince became an important administrator in the Mongol Empire?
Why would Mongols have too little experience to govern cities they conquered?
Khitan had been overthrown by which dynasty that Genghis Khan later defeated?
Who were Chu'Tsai's forefathers?
Who among Genghis Khan's subjects shared similar privileges to his close family members'?
What was the capital of the Mongol Empire?
Who was delegated command of the Mongol forces against the Jin dynasty?
Which two generals raided the Caucasas and Kievan Rus' for Genghis Khan?
What did Genghis Khan expect from his generals alongside the autonomy he granted them?
What would Mongol armies divert in order to cut off the resources of cities they were attacking?
What were the cultural origins of the engineers and technology adopted by the Mongol military?
How did Mongol armies lure enemy groups out of their defensive positions?
How were enemy prisoners used tactically by Mongol armies?
What sea bordered Genghis Khan's empire to the east when he died?
What body of water sat to the west of the Mongol Empire when Genghis Khan died?
Who led the most rapid expansion of the Mongol Empire?
What year was the conflict with the Song dynasty concluded?
To which trading route did Genghis Khan bring a stable political climate?
In which Middle Eastern country is Genghis Khan's title a popular name for male children?
What was the Genghis Khan's characteristic approach to religious diversity?
What effect did Genghis Khan's career have on communication and trade across Asia?
What recent decade saw brightening of the perception of Genghis Khan in Mongolia?
What is the key accomplishment of Genghis Khan that modern Mongolians celebrate?
How do Mongolians sometime describe their relationship to Genghis Khan?
What do some Mongolians feel non-Mongolian historians exaggerate about Genghis Khan?
What is the general perception of non-Mongolian histories of Genghis Khan by Mongolians themselves?
What is the name of contemporary Mongolian currency?
Whose likeness is on the larger denominations of Mongolian currency?
What is the name of Mongolia's largest airport?
Why have Mongolian politicians considered regulating the use of Genghis Khan's name?
What city is near a major statue of Genghis Khan?
What is the Mongolian name of the first Mongolian laws codified in writing?
What did Mongolian President Tsakhiagian Elbegdorj note was significantly punished by Genghis Khan's laws?
Which Mongolian president lauded Genghis Khan on the 850th anniversary of the conqueror's birth?
What innovation in Mongolian language is credited to Genghis Khan?
Where in China is Genghis Khan most favorably viewed today?
What is the population of the Inner Mongolia region of China?
Which descendant of Genghis Khan is remembered as having reunified China?
What Chinese dynasty did the Mongols found?
What was Kublai Khan's relation to Genghis Khan?
Which Middle Eastern nation in particular views Genghis Khan as a contemptible perpetrator of genocide?
What proportion of the general population in the area than became Iran did Genghis Khan kill?
How many people do historians estimate Genghis Khan killed in the Iranian Plateau?
Which descendant of Genghis Khan sacked Baghdad?
Who halted the advance of Hulagu Khan across the Middle East?
Which of Genghis Khan's descendants pushed the Mamluks out of Palestine?
In which year did Genghis Khan's grandson invade Kievan Rus'?
Which major cities in Eastern Europe were not destroyed by the Mongol invasion?
Which descendants of Genghis Khan tried to dissociate themselves from the Mongol massacres in the Middle East?
Which Mongol conqueror was most celebrated by the Mughal emperors?
From where was the Muslim historical figure Attar, whose murder by the Mongols was long remembered?
Which Mongolian word meaning wide-spreading may have contributed to the appellation Genghis?
Which massive lake did the Mongolians call tenggis?
What does zhèng mean?
Jenggis is the adjectival form of what word?
What spelling of Genghis most closely matches its probable pronunciation?
What is the Mongolian spelling of Genghis Khan?
How is Genghis Khan spelled in Turkic?
How is Temüjin written in pinyin?
What are alternate English spelling of Genghis?
How is Genghis Khan written in pinyin?
What word is the word pharmacy taken from?
What goods were sold in a pharma?
What did the Greek root pharmakos imply?
How would the word apothecary be viewed by contemporary English speakers?
What else was used by pharmas?
What type of professionals are pharmacists?
What types of health outcomes do pharmacists aim for with their patients?
What type of treatment are pharmacists important for?
What other role do many pharmacists play?
What types of preparation do pharmacists have?
Who oversees a Pharmacy Technician in the UK?
With what body must a pharmacy technician register?
What is a main duty of the GPhC?
What type of professional is a Pharmacy Technician considered to be?
What types of responsibilities might a pharmacy technician have?
What is Pedanius Dioscorides known for?
What is the name of the Latin translation of Dioscorides' book?
What term resulted from Dioscorides' book?
Who was a man studying medicinal applicants of plants in Ancient Greece?
Who added to Dioscorides' book in the Islamic Golden Age?
How were the men who did tasks like those of today's pharmacists viewed in Japan in the Asuka and Nara periods?
In which two codes were the roles of pharmacists codified?
What put a hierarchical structure in place?
What stature did pharmacists have in the pre-Heian Imperial court?
Where did the pharmacist stand in relation to the Emperor's personal physicians?
Developments in which scientists influenced the creation of pharmacology in medieval Islam?
Who was influential in promoting the use of chemical compounds as medicines?
Who authored the Liber servitoris?
Who wrote about the distillation of drinking water from sea water?
Which two compounds did Al-Muwaffaq differentiate between?
How far does one pharmacy in Croatia date back to?
Where is the oldest pharmacy stated to be located?
What is the medieval Esteve Pharmacy used as at present?
What sorts of items are displayed in the Esteve Pharmacy museum?
In what year is the oldest pharmacy said to have been established?
What is the dispensary subject to in a majority of countries?
What responsibilities were pharmacy technicians formerly limited to?
What do pharmacy technicians depend on more and more?
What are new responsibilities pharmacy technicians now deal with?
What does pharmacy legislation mandate?
Where do pharmacists acquire more preparation following pharmacy school?
What do clinical pharmacists specialize in?
What is one issue that adds to the complexity of a pharmacist's job?
Which pharmacists are likely to seek additional education following pharmacy school?
Where are many hospital pharmacies located?
In what form are most hospital medications?
What types of pharmacy functions have begun to be outsourced?
What is one factor that increases the importance of the pharmacy performing at a high level?
What are some advantages of hospital pharmacies?
What do the services given by pharmacists provide?
What is the origin of clinical pharmacy?
Who do clinical pharmacists work with much of the time?
What do clinical pharmacists often participate in?
Where do clinical pharmacists work with patients?
What is one example of what a clinical pharmacist's duties entail?
What is involved in a review of prescribed medications?
What are the components of drug therapy?
What are some other factors a pharmacist must monitor?
What type of authority are ambulatory care pharmacists given in the U.S. federal health care system?
In what states are pharmacist clinicians given prescriptive and diagnostic authority?
When was ambulatory care pharmacy approved as its own certification?
What will a pharmacist who passes the ambulatory pharmacist exam be called?
What entities are included in the federal health care system?
What is consultant pharmacy mainly concerned with?
Where do a majority of consultant pharmacists tend to work?
What are some large pharmacy management companies?
What is the main reason consulting pharmacists are increasingly working directly with patients?
What do some community pharmacies do?
When did internet pharmacies begin to come into being?
Who often operates internet pharmacies?
What are internet pharmacies also called?
What is one reason a patient might choose an internet pharmacy?
What is the main difference between online pharmacies and community pharmacies?
Why might customers order from internet pharmacies?
Who has criticized ordering from online pharmacies that don't require prescriptions?
What is a criticism of online pharmacies that issue drugs without a prescription?
What practice do some internet pharmacies engage in?
What do most online pharmacies do?
What is one problem with internet pharmacies?
What conditions must be met for a prescription for a controlled substance to be valid?
What is one problem with internet pharmacies?
What conditions must be met to prescribe a controlled substance?
What is the obligation of a pharmacy filling a prescription?
Who defines what constitutes a patient-doctor relationship?
What is an example of a controlled substance?
What is a reason for the movement to legalize importing medicines from other countries?
What is one country that has been suggested for importation of medicines?
Who are FDA laws against importing medications aimed at?
Has there ever been anyone charged with importing drugs from Canada for personal medicinal use?
What is there a push for in the U.S. to reduce consumer drug costs?
What two things does pharmacy informatics bring together?
What fields may pharmacy informatics also work in?
Whose needs will the growth in pharmacy informatics meet?
What areas are pharmacy informatics prepared to work in?
How fast is pharmacy informatics growing?
What is the fastest growing area in the pharmaceutical industry?
How many drugs approved by the FDA in 2013 were specialty drugs?
What types of diseases are specialty drugs often used against?
What types of medications do specialty pharmacies stock?
Besides drugs, what else do specialty pharmacies provide?
How are pharmacists regulated in most jurisdictions?
Who do most jurisdictions say can give scheduled drugs to the public?
What body has stated that physicians can also dispense drugs under specific conditions?
What is the estimate of how many physicians give out drugs on their own?
What are pharmacists forbidden to do?
What is another country that permits physicians to give out drugs from within their practice?
Where are some physicians permitted to prescribe and give out medications within their practices?
What is the minimum distance between a patient's home and the nearest pharmacy that allows a physician to give out medication?
What is the minimum distance between a patient's home and the nearest pharmacy that allows a physician in Austria to give out medicine?
Why is majority rule used?
Why might a physician diagnose a large number of conditions?
What do rules about conflict of interest involving doctors diagnosing patients resemble?
How else might a physician take advantage of self-interest?
Where might the doctor's self-interest be at odds with the patient's self-interest?
What will be the importance of the pharmacist in coming decades?
What responsibilities are pharmacists believed to be taking on more in the future?
What is included in Medication Therapy Management?
What are examples of clinical services that pharmacists can provide?
What are outcomes expected with Medication Therapy Management?
Which provinces in Canada limit the rights of pharmacists in prescribing?
Who pays Australian pharmacists for doing Home Medicines Reviews?
What are pharmacists in the United Kingdom being increasingly paid for?
What fields have increased in influence on pharmacy in the United States?
What degree is now mandatory in the U.S. in order to be a licensed pharmacist?
What are the two symbols that signify pharmacy in English-speaking countries?
What symbol was employed until early in the 20th century?
What country uses the Bowl of Hygieia as a symbol of pharmacy?
What countries use a red stylized A to signify pharmacy?
Which countries use the green Greek cross as a symbol of pharmacy?
What is the immune system?
What does the immune system protect against?
What are two of its subsystems?
What is the subsystem that protects the human brain?
What is the immune system?
What does the immune system protect against?
What are two of its subsystems?
The immune system protects organisms against what?
What are the agents the immune system detects known as?
Which part of the immune system protects the brain?
What separates the neuroimmune system and peripheral immune system in humans?
What are the agents detected by the immune system called?
What are the two major subsystems of the immune system?
What are the two different types of immunity?
What is the immune system of the brained known as?
How do pathogens avoid detection?
What kind of immune system do bacteria have?
Which other ancient organism formed basic immune mechanisms?
How does adaptive/acquired immunity help in the future?
The immune systems of bacteria have enzymes that protect against infection by what kind of cells?
What are antimicrobial peptides that evolved as immune defense in eukaryotes called?
The idea of acquired immunity in jawed vertebrates is the basis of what medical treatment?
What is the ability to recognize and adapt to new specific pathogens called?
What can result from disorders of the immune system?
When does immunodeficiency occur?
What does immunodeficiency cause?
Name one of the causes of immunodeficiency.
Name a common autoimmune disease.
What happens when the immune system less active than normal?
What is the term for a hyperactive immune system that attacks normal tissues?
What field involves the study of the immune system?
What acquired condition results in immunodeficiency in humans?
What even is the earliest known reference to immunity?
Which animal's venom did Pierre-Louis Moreau de Maupertuis work with?
Who came up with germ theory?
Who discovered the Yellow Fever virus?
Who won the Nobel Prize in 1905?
What did Robert Koch prove was the cause of infectious disease?
What virus did Walter Reed discover?
When was the first known historical reference to immunity?
What is another name for an immune system's improved response?
Which system comes after an organism's physical barriers?
What protection comes after the innate response?
What type of immune systems are found in all plants and animals?
What immune system is activated by the innate response?
What allows the adaptive immune system to react faster and more strongly each subsequent time a pathogen is encountered?
What is the first line of defense against pathogens that prevents them from entering an organism?
The adaptive immune system must distinguish between what types of molecules?
What molecules are parts of the body of an organism in immunology?
What molecules are recognized as foreign by the immune system?
What term is shorthand for antibody generators?
Antigens bind to what in order to elicit a response of the immune system?
What part of the innate immune system identifies microbes and triggers immune response?
For most organisms, what is the dominant system of defense?
Pattern recognition receptors recognize components present in broad groups of what?
The innate immune system responds in a generic way, meaning it is what?
What is a mechanical barrier in insects that protects the insect?
What is an example of a mechanical barrier on leaves?
What responses protect the lungs by mechanically ejecting pathogens from the respiratory system?
What is secreted by the respiratory tract to trap microorganisms?
The flushing action of what expels pathogens from the eyes?
What are the anitmicrobial peptides secreted by the skin called?
What enzymes in saliva are antibacterial in nature?
Semen contains what in order to kill pathogens?
What compounds in the stomach protect against ingested pathogens?
Vaginal secretions serve as a chemical protective barrier following what?
What serves as a biological barrier by competing for space and food in the GI tract?
Most antibiotics target bacteria and don't affect what class of organisms?
What probiotic flora is found in unpasteurized yogurt?
Commensal flora can change what specific conditions of their environment in the gastrointestinal tract?
What is one of the first responses the immune system has to infection?
What causes the symptoms of inflammation?
What compounds are released by injured or infected cells, triggering inflammation?
Eicosanoids include what compounds that result in fever and blood vessel dilation?
What cytokines are responsible for communication between white blood cells?
What type of cells engulf or eat pathogens and foreign particles?
Phagocytes can be called to a specific location by what?
When a pathogen has been eaten by a phagocyte it becomes trapped in what vesicle?
What is formed when a phagosome fuses with a lysosome?
Phagocytosis first evolved as means of doing what?
What are two types of phagocytes that travel through the body to find invading pathogens?
What are the most abundant kind of phagocyte?
What percentage of leukocytes do neutrophils represent?
What is the process in which neutrophils move towards the site of inflammation called?
What is a regulatory factor produced by macrophages?
What are white blood cells known as?
What cells are the second arm of the innate immune system?
Innate cells can act as mediators in the activation of what branch of the immune system?
What are three kinds of phagocytes?
What are the phagocytes that are located in tissues in contact with the external environment called?
Dendritic cells are named that because they resemble what?
What are one of the key cell types of the adaptive immune system?
Dendritic cells present antigens to what cells of the adaptive nervous system?
Natural killer cells recognize cells that should be targeted by a condition known as what?
What is one part of the innate immune system that doesn't attack microbes directly?
Missing self desribes cells that only have small amounts of what cell-surface marker?
MHC antigens on normal body cells are recognized by what receptor on NK cells?
In what types of organisms did the adaptive immune system first evolve?
The adaptive immune system recognizes non-self antigens during a process called what?
Antigen specificity allows responses that are specific to certain types of what?
What are the two major subtypes of T cells?
What kind of T cells have the purpose of modulating the immune response?
Killer T cells can only recognize antigens coupled to what kind of molecules?
Helper and regulatory T cells can only recognize antigens coupled to what kind of molecules?
What class of T cells recognizes intact antigens that are not associated with MHC receptors?
What kind of T cells kill cells that are infected with pathogens?
What co-receptor on the T cell helps in recognizing the MHC-antigen complex?
What is the receptor that killer T cells use to bind to specific antigens that are complexed with the MHC Class 1 receptor of another cell?
What toxin induces apoptosis in the target cell?
When an activated killer T cell finds cells where the MHC 1 receptor has specific antigens, it releases cytotoxins such as what?
What co-receptor recruits molecules inside the T cell that are responsible for cell activation?
How many receptors on a helper T cell must be bound to a MHC:antigen complex in order for the cell to be activated?
The receptors on a killer T cell must bind to how many MHC: antigen complexes in order to activate the cell?
Activation of a helper T cell causes it to release what chemicals that influence cell activity?
What is a ligand on the cell surface that is upregulated after helper T cell activation?
Gamma delta T cells share the characteristics of what other types of T cells?
Gamma delta T cells have a different version of what receptor?
What type of T cells help with both innnate and adaptive immunity?
Gamma delta T cells rearrange TCR genes to produce what?
What kind of human T cells respond to common molecules produced by microbes?
What kind of cell identifies pathogens when the antibodies on its surface complex with a specific foreign antigen?
What is the process by which the antigen/antibody complex is processed in to peptides?
What does the matching helper T cell release when it binds with the MHC:antigen complex of the B cell?
When B cells and T cells begin to replicate, what do some of their offspring cells become?
The function of long-lived memory cells is an example of what kind of immune response?
Immunological memory can take what two forms?
Long-lived memory cells can remember previous encounters with what?
Newborns are vulnerable to infection because they have no previous exposure to what?
What antibody is transported from the mother to baby across the placenta?
Antibodies are transferred to the gut of the infant through what means?
Antibodies transported from the mother to an infant via the placenta is an example of what type of short-lived immunity?
Hormones can alter the sensitivity of the immune system, so they can be referred to as what?
Female sex hormones are immunostimulators of which immune responses?
What is an autoimmune disease that affects women preferentially?
What is the effect of testosterone on the male immune system?
What is a protein that is closely intertwined with circadian rhythms?
Disruptions in sleep can lead to increase in what chronic conditions?
What kind of deprivation results in diminished immune response and lower antibody production?
What is partially responsible for weakened immune response in older individuals?
As a person gets older, what does the skin produce less of?
The production of what signalling molecules is regulated by the immune system?
Older people get less sun and produce less of what chemical via UVB radiation?
What type of immune cells help to destroy abnormal cells in tumors?
Lots of tumor cells have fewer of what type of molecule on their surface?
Tumor antigens are complexed with MHC class I molecules in the same way as what antigens?
The immune system also produces what molecules in order to allow for tumor destruction by the complement system?
Plants lack what kind of immune cells?
Plant cells respond to the molecules associated with pathogens known as what?
Cells of the site of an infection in a plant undergo what process to prevent spread of the disease?
What is a kind of defense response that makes the entire plant resistant to a particular agent?
What is a mechanism that can help plants block virus replication?
What kind of disorders are the result of an overactive immune response?
In autoimmune disorders, the immune system doesn't distinguish between what types of cells?
Where are the specialized cells that eliminate cells that recognize self-antigens located?
Under normal conditions, T cells and antibodies produce what kind of peptides?
What kind of disorders occur when part of the immune system isn't active?
In what two age groups is the strength of the immune system reduced?
At what age do immune responses typically begin to decline?
What are some causes of reduced immune function in developed countries?
What is the most common cause of immunodeficiency in developing nations?
By what process can active immunity be generated in an artificial manner?
What is the process of vaccination also known as?
In the process of vaccination, what is introduced in order to develop a specific immunity?
Vaccination exploits what feature of the human immune system in order to be successful?
Bacteria often secrete what kind of proteins to ingest a physical barrier?
What kind of system of infection involves inserting a hollow tube into a host cell?
In a type III secretion system, proteins are transported to the host cell in order to do what?
The success of pathogens is predicated on their ability to do what?
Who formulated the idea of clonal selection theory of immunity?
What are two examples of nonself entities in accordance with Frank Burnet's theory?
What is the complex "two-signal" activation of T cells referred to?
What other scientist influence Frank Burnet when he was formulating his theory of immunity?
What are the most powerful class of anti-inflammatory drugs?
Low doses of anti-inflammatories are sometimes used with what classes of drugs?
What are two examples of cytotoxic or immunosuppressive drugs?
What is an example of an immunosuppressive drug that prevents T cell activity by altering signal transduction pathways?
What are examples of differentiated effector cells that peak during wake periods?
What are two anti-inflammatory molecules that peak during awake hours?
Inflammation occurs during sleep times because of the presence of what molecule?
Melatonin during sleep can actively counteract the production of what?
What does a T cell extend when it encounters a foreign pathogen?
What is the active form of vitamin D known as?
What is the nature of the relationship between T-cells and vitamin D?
What gene is responsible for converting calcidiol into calcitriol?
Other than T cells, what other immune cells express CYP27B1?
What are the proteins that organisms use to identify molecules associated with pathogens?
What are the antimicrobial peptides that are the main form of invertebrate systemic immunity called?
What cell type is also used for immune response in most types of invertebrate life?
What pathway that plays a role in immune response to viruses is present in all eukaryotes?
What molecules of the adaptive immune system only exist in jawed vertebrates?
What are two examples of primitive jawless vertebrates?
Primitive jawless vertebrates possess an array of receptors referred to as what?
Evolution of what part of the immune system occurred in the evolutionary ancestor of jawed vertebrates?
Invertebrates do not generate what type of cells that are a part of the vertebrate adaptive immune system?
What is the main defense mechanism of bacteria known as?
The restriction modification system is used by bacteria for protection from what pathogens?
What is the system by which prokaryotes retain phage gene fragments that they have previously come in contact with?
What were the two main theories of immunity at the end of the 19th century?
Who was the main proponent of the cellular theory of immunity?
Under Elie Metchnikoff's cellular theory, what cells were responsible for immune response?
What two scientists were proponents of the humoral theory of immunity?
According to the humoral theory of immunity, what were the bodies immune agents?
Tumors that are able to evade the body's immune response can become what?
What receptors do tumor cells often have reduced concentrations of?
What is a chemical secreted by tumors that suppresses the immune response?
Cytokine TBF-B suppresses the activity of what cell types?
What is the name for a response of the immune system that damages the body's native tissues?
How many classes of immune hypersensitivity are there?
What type of hypersensitivity is associated with allergies?
What is the chemical that mediates Type 1 hypersensitivity?
Antibody-dependent hypersensitivity belongs to what class of hypersensitivity?
What is the process by which pathogens evade the immune system by hiding inside the host cells called?
What food bacteria is an example of intracellular pathogenesis?
What is the eukaryotic parasite responsible for malaria known as?
What bacteria lives inside a protective capsule that serves to prevent cell lysis?
What protein does Staphylococcus aureus produce to make antibodies ineffective?
What is the process by which the adaptive immune system is evaded by the chainging of non-essential epitopes called?
What is an example of a virus that uses antigenic variation?
What is an example of a parasite that used the antigenic variation strategy to evade destruction?
What compounds can be masked with the molecules of the host cell in order for a virus to evade detection?
What is the process by which the immune system identifies tumors called?
What is the virus in humans that causes cervical cancer?
What is an example of an enzyme that can transform skin cells into tumors when expressed at high levels?
What are cancerous tumors of the skin known as?
What are the skin cells that can be transformed into tumors known as?
At what size and larger can drugs elicit a neutralizing immune response?
What kind of amino acids are overrepresented in epitope regions?
What is the study of proteins involved in immune response known as?
There is a public database of epitopes for pathogens known to be recognizable by what cells?
What is the field of studying immunogenicity through bioinformatics known as?
Drop in the blood levels of cortisol and epinephrine results in increase levels of what hormones?
Hormones released during sleep support the interaction of T-cells and what species?
Sleep hormones shift the cytokine balance to which cytokine?
Sleep hormone release supports formation of immune memory by initiating what immune response?
Complement proteins bind to what kind of molecules on the surface of microbes in order to elicit an immune response?
How can the deposition of compliment kill invader cells directly?
The speed of the killing response of the human immune system is a product of what process?
What type of cascade results when complement proteins bind to microbes and activate their protease activity?
What is it called when people in society rebel against laws they think are unfair?
What is an example of major civil disobedience in South Africa?
What was the the movement called that brought Baltic countries independence from the Soviet Union?
In 2004 the Orange revolution occurred in what country?
Where was the location of the 2003 Rose revolution?
Which people brought forward one of the earliest examples of Civil Disobedience?
Who was one of the earliest examples of Civil Disobedience against?
Why do people chose civil disobedience to protest?
What does civil disobedience protest against?
What civil rights movement in the US was known for it's disobedience?
Sophocles demonstrated civil disobedience in a play that was called?
Who is Antigone's father in the play?
What is the name of the current King of Thebes in the play?
What character in the play portrays civil disobedience?
What is Creon trying to stop Antigone from doing in the play?
What play showed an early depiction of civil disobedience?
Antigone was a play made by whom?
In Antigone, who was the target of civil disobedience?
What was the protest in Antigone about?
How was the civil disobedience shown in Antigone?
After the Peterloo massacre what poet wrote The Massacre of Anarchy?
His poem is considered the first kind of what type of protest?
Inspired by Shelley what was the name of Gandhi's doctrine?
Gandhi often referenced Shelley's poem in his efforts to do what?
What famous author used similarity and likeness of Percy Shelly in his writing?
Who wrote the poem The Mark of Anarchy?
The Mark of Anarchy was written to protest against what?
What was the principle shown in The Mark of Anarchy?
What was Ghandi's work called?
Which famous Indian practiced civil disobedience?
Vice President Agnew describes Civil disobedience in what activities?
What person argues that civil disobedience is used to describe everything?
Civil disobedience has been argued in more recent times to have suffered from what?
More in the present prevalence of civil disobedience has turned and said to be?
In modern times, what is said about civil disobedience?
Who noted the different current uses of civil disobedience?
How has civil disobedience evolved in current times?
Who gave a negative connotation to civil disobedience in recent history?
What issue has been plaguing the civil disobedience movement.
Who wrote that it is difficult to produce an all inclusive definition of civil disobedience?
Le Grande also wrote that defining the term civil disobedience so difficult it could be described as?
Le grand asks for a variance of what three terms?
Le grand states that students studying civil disobedience will often run into grammatical niceties and what other problem?
Le grand concludes that an author's words offer only what they intended for them to imply regarding this type of terminology?
Who said that writing a good description of civil disobedience is hard?
How much literature has been written regarding civil disobedience?
What issue plagues the literature about civil disobedience?
What type of protest falls under civil disobedience without aggression?
What type of civil disobedience is accompanied by aggression?
If the head of government refuses to enforce a decision of the highest court what terminology could be used?
Constitutional impasse is different from civil disobedience because does not include what type of person?
How is civil disobedience typically defined in connection of the citizen's?
When would a person be considered to be excising a constitutional impasse?
Constitutional impasse is distinct from what key term?
What does civil disobedience relate to?
What does not constitute as civil disobedience?
What type of person can not be attributed civil disobedience?
Civil Disobedience is mainly performed by what population group?
What group of people cannot be part of civil disobedience?
What author argues pitching the conscience versus the collective?
What was Thoreau's punishment for not paying his taxes?
Thoreau argues that usually majority rules but their views collectively are sometimes?
What did Thoreau ask a public figure the taxman to do?
Thoreau mentions what type of person could corrupt a government system?
Who is the final judge of right and wrong?
Who is to blame for acting unjustly?
Who was famous for disobedience against a tax collector?
What advise did Thoreau give the tax collector when unable to perform his duty?
What did Thoreau claim about the majority?
Some theories argue that civil disobedience is justified in regard to?
Brownlee argues disobedience can be justified toward what institutions?
Brownlee justifies civil disobedience toward what branch of the government?
Browlee also applies that civil disobedience is okay regarding?
Who claims that public companies can also be part of civil disobedience?
What reason is given that you should also protest public companies?
What do some theories claim about civil disobedience?
What public entity of learning is often target of civil disobedience?
If law breaking is not done in a public manor it is not considered what term?
Stephen Eilmann asks why show public civil disobedience instead what is a better idea?
Stephen Eilmann demonstrates covert law breaking in Nazi Germany. Citizen's illegally had been doing what?
Stephen Eildmann cites the oldest known example of civil disobedience in what part of the bible?
What two women were defying the pharaoh in the story from the book of Exodus?
What must be done to make non public lawbreaking acknowledged as civil disobedience?
What is necessary to disobey?
What is sometimes more effective than civil disobedience at times?
What dilemma is a good example of moral civil disobedience?
What book of the Bible discusses civil disobedience?
Cristian Bay's encyclopedia concludes that civil disobedience does not only include what behavior?
What dictionary contains a non- violent definition?
What other terminology is considered much more destructive?
People behaving with civil disobedience that is not-violent is said to make society have more of what?
Debates about civil disobedience include or exclude what major practice?
What type of civil disobedience is commonly accepted?
When violence is used, what is civil disobedience sometimes called?
What is one result of civil rebellion?
Why is it preferred that civil disobedience is non violent?
What is it called when there is an active attempt to overthrow a government or belief system?
What group of people performed revolutionary civil disobedience toward the Austrian government?
The Hungarians performed this civil disobedience under the direction of what person?
Revolutionary civil disobedience towards culture is highlighted by example of who?
What other topics can Civil disobedience pertain to?
What is a simple form of civil disobedience?
Why would a person chose civil disobedience against specific laws?
What is the goal of individual civil disobedience?
What type of civil disobedience is larger scale?
What famous Indian's actions were considered civil disobedience?
When did the earliest examples of civil disobedience as a whole occur?
What did the Jewish people do so pagan items wouldn't be in the temple of Jerusalem?
Since Thoreau was not a well known writer what happened when he was arrested?
What position did the tax collector that arrested Thoreau get?
When was Thoreau's essay published?
When is the oldest recorded incident of civil disobedience?
What was the goal of this Roman disobedience?
What is a recent civil disobedience done in a group form?
What is the civil disobedience called where people refuse to be released?
How long did it take for Thoreau's disobedience to be known?
Civil disobedients have chosen many different kinds of what type of behaviors?
Bedau notes that illegal protests towards public policy may serve as what purpose?
What group of civil disobedients brought medicine to Iraq without the permission of the government?
How long did Julia Butterfly Hill live in a tree?
What was the outcome of living in the California Redwood tree?
What type of actions are taken sometimes in civil disobedience?
What is an example of illegal disobedience?
Such protests are usually considered to be what type?
What type of goals are usually done skirting the law?
Who lived in a tree to prevent it from being cut down as a form of civil disobedience?
What was Joseph Haas arrested for?
What did Joseph Haas say in his email?
Civil disobedience can occur when people speak about a certain topic that is deemed as?
WBAI's broadcasting Some of George Carlin's comedy eventually led to what?
What year did the the case go before the supreme court?
What is one criminal behavior that is hard to stop by authorities?
What is one way to use pure speech to reach as much people as possible to protest?
How can you protest against the government in an individual way?
What is one way of digital civil disobedience that can have far reaching consequences?
Boycotting, refusing to pay taxes, sit ins, and draft dodging all make what harder?
Name one way the Plowshares organization temporarily close GCSB Waihopai?
Name the other way that the Plowshares organization temporarily closed?
Brownlee argues that sometimes people behave in what way to have their issue heard?
When large groups of people all boycott a system or don't pay taxes it can be considered?
What is a type of disobedience against the federal government?
What side effect of these type of protests is unfortunate?
What goal do many of these protests have?
How can you protest against big companies in a non violent way?
What type of government investigations apply to civil disobedience?
What is a way you can show police officers civil disobedience?
What should be avoided when talking to authorities?
What reasons cause failure of the disobedience with authorities?
Why do some people purposely resist officers of the law?
What do some civil disobedient people feel the need to acknowledge.
Why is the need for acceptance of punishment needed?
What do some people protest against?
What is the group called that does not agree with government at all?
Anarchists do not want to accept punishment for what reason?
What is an important personal decision for civil disobedients?
Which duty do some people believe civil disobedients have?
Why would one plead guilty to a crime involving civil disobedience?
Which reason is given sometimes to plead not guilty involving these matters?
What third type of plea uses creative words?
Where in Las Vegas did a famous protest take place?
What was the civil disobedience performed at the test site?
What was the result of the disobedience protesting the nuclear site?
How did their lawyer suggest they would plea?
What type of sentences were the protesters given?
Why do some people chose to go to jail for their disobedience?
Going to jail accomplished what goal of civil disobedience?
What is the most important item for civil disobedience to follow through?
Why should one not go to jail?
What type of punishment is sometimes offered to civil disobedients?
What is usually the goal of taking a plea bargain?
When many people are arrested, what is a common tactic negotiating?
What type of plea is sometimes taken as an act of disobedience?
Which famous Indian took a plea and put himself at the mercy of the courts?
What way do some people perform civil disobedience in a constructive way?
Why would one want to give a speech?
Why is giving a defiant speech sometimes more harmful for the individual?
Why would one want to give more punishment?
What type of treatment do civil disobedients usually receive?
What is the primary goal of pleading not guilty when arrested for Civil Disobedience?
What is a secondary goal of pleading not guilty?
What would someone who is civilly disobedient do in court?
What US war has a large amount of Civil Disobedients?
What can sympathetic Jurors in cases with civil disobedients?
What needs to be avoided with civil disobedience?
Why should disobedience by the general public be avoided?
What is one main reason that civil disobedience is not recognized?
Why should someone not commit a crime when they are protesting?
For what reason would someone avoid crimes while protesting?
What is violating a law which is not the goal of the protest called?
When the law is a direct target of the protest, what is this called?
What US war caused a high amount of civil disobedience?
What type of defense is sometimes used in court by protestors?
Why are people who distribute leaflets inside courthouses not been arrested?
What is the main goal of criminal punishment of civil disobedients?
What should be the main goal of not using punishment in a just system?
Who decides the fate of protesters most of the time?
What should the punishment rely on instead in a just society?
What is the process of constructing a building or infrastructure?
What typically involves mass production of similar items without a designated purchaser?
What percentile of gross domestic product is construction comprised of?
What three things are needed for construction to take place?
Construction takes place on location for who?
Who normally manages a construction job?
Who normally supervises a construction job?
What is essential for the successful execution of a project?
The largest construction projects are known as what?
Zoning requirements, environmental impact, budgeting, and logistics are things who should consider?
What are the three sectors of construction?
Building construction is usually further divided into what categories?
Infrastructure is often called what?
Large public works, dams, bridges, highways, water/wastewater and utility distribution are under what construction sector?
Refineries, process chemical, power generation, mills and manufacturing plants are under what sector of construction?
What is Engineering News-Record?
What compiles and reports on data about the size of design and construction companies?
In what year did ENR compile data in nine market segments?
ENR used data on what to rank Top 400 firms as heavy contractors?
What are the three construction subsectors?
There are other categories for what?
What has a classification system for construction companies?
What are construction managers?
What is the process of adding structure to real property or construction of buildings?
The majority of building construction jobs are what?
Who acts as laborer, paymaster, and design team for a renovation project?
What are some examples of undesirable end results of a project?
What do those in the field do to ensure a positive outcome?
Residential construction practices, technologies, and resources must conform to what?
What generally dictates the construction materials used?
Residential construction can generate what is not carefully planned?
Site conditions, local regulations, economies of scale and the availability of skilled tradespeople all affect what?
New techniques of building construction are being researched, made possible by advances in what?
Building printing is making it possible to flexibly construct small commercial buildings and private habitations in what amount of time?
Dutch architect Janjaap Ruijssenaars's performative architecture 3D-printed building is scheduled to be built when?
Working versions of 3D-printing building technology are already printing how much building material per hour?
A formal design team may be assembled to do what?
Construction involves the translation of what?
The design team is most commonly employed by who?
Who provides the bill of quantities?
The owner typically awards a contract to who?
The modern trend in design is toward integration of what?
Even in large firms, architects, interior designers, engineers, developers, construction managers, and general contractors were more likely to be what?
In modern times, firms may offer themselves as what for a construction project?
What kind of contract is given when the contractor is given a performance specification and must undertake the project from design to construction, while adhering to the performance specifications?
What project structures assist the owner in integration?
These project structures allow the owner to integrate the services of who throughout the design and construction?
Many construction companies are now placing more emphasis on what?
What can construction projects suffer from?
What is an underbid?
When do cash flow problems exist?
What financial issue is notoriously prevalent in the construction field?
Who are likely participants in creating an overall plan for the financial management of the building construction project?
The presence of who is highly likely even in small projects?
Who studies the expected monetary flow over the life of the project and to monitor the payouts throughout the process?
Cost overruns with government projects have occurred when the contractor did what?
Who applies expertise to relate the work and materials involved to a proper valuation?
What must a project adhere to?
Constructing a project that fails to adhere to codes does not benefit whom?
What is malum in se considerations?
What are malum prohibitum considerations?
Who may seek changes or exemptions in the law that governs the land where the building will be built?
What is a complex net of contracts and other legal obligations?
What is the exchange of a set of obligations between two or more parties?
What does the time element in construction mean?
Contracts must be designed to ensure what?
What leads to confusion and collapse?
A growing number of new forms of procurement involves what?
What is PPP?
What is a PPP also known as?
Focus on what is to ameliorate the many problems that arise from the often highly competitive and adversarial practices within the construction industry.
In the most common construction procurement, who acts as the project coordinator?
Whose role is to design the works, prepare the specifications and produce construction drawings, administer the contract, tender the works, and manage the works from inception to completion
There are direct contractual links between who?
Any subcontractor has a direct contractual relationship with who?
The procedure continues until what?
Who produces a list of requirements for a project, giving an overall view of the project's goals?
Who presents different ideas about how to accomplish goals?
Who selects and hires the best ideas and appropriate contractors?
Who is usually working together?
What happens as they build phase 1?
Who is required to verify and have existing utility lines marked?
Having existing utility lines marked lessens the likelihood of what?
What are some existing facilities?
Who inspects the building periodically to ensure that the construction adheres to the approved plans and the local building code?
What is issued once construction is complete and a final inspection has been passed?
What is the annual construction industry revenue in 2014?
How much revenue is private?
How many firms were existing in 2005?
The average contractor hired how many employees?
How many women were employed in construction in 2011?
What is the average construction salary in the Middle East?
What is the average construction salary in the UK?
Where have some workers made more than $100,000?
What is one of the most dangerous occupations in the world?
What is the most common cause of injury on site?
What are other major fatality causes?
What can curtail the risk of occupational injuries in the construction industry?
Along with non-governmental and nonstate schools, what is another name for private schools?
Along with sport and art, what is a type of talent scholarship?
Rather than taxation, what are private schools largely funded by?
What right do private schools have that public schools don't?
What is the yearly cost of some notable prep schools in New England?
What are private schools that charge no tuition called?
Along with Canada and the United Kingdom, what country generally doesn't refer to universities as private schools?
What region does use the term 'private schools' to refer to universities?
What is another term for year 12 of education?
What is another term used for year 13?
What is another term for university-preparatory schools?
Along with location, endowment and the willingness of parents to pay, what factor influences private school tuition?
Who receives higher salaries at private schools that charge higher tuition?
What religion's schools does the term 'parochial schools' generally refer to?
Along with Muslims, Jews and Protestant Christians, what religious group notably operates private schools?
What type of education is sometimes present at religious schools in addition to the secular curriculum?
What power is available to Australian private schools but generally not present in public schools?
What is an example of an article of uniform clothing typically present in Australian private schools?
What is the comparison in price between Australian private schools versus public?
Along with the Anglican Church and Uniting Church, what religious denomination operates private schools in Australia?
What denomination operates St Joseph's College?
Where is St Aloysius' College located?
Who attends Loreto Normanhurst?
What article of the Grundgesetz grants the right to make private schools?
The prospect of what event compelled the protection of German private schools?
What percentage of German students attended private schools in 2008?
What was the percentage of Germans attending private high schools in 2008?
In 1992, what percentage of East German students attended private schools?
What is the German term for segregating students based on their parents' wealth?
What do Germans call private schools?
How does the level of tuition in German private schools compare to private schools in other Western European countries?
What are private secondary schools in Germany called?
What types of schools are most ergänzungsschulen?
How are ergänzungsschulen funded?
Along with private individuals and organizations, what groups sometimes runs ergänzungsschulen?
What is the term for an Indian private school?
Along with the CISCE and NENBSE, what is a notable Examination Board in multiple Indian states?
How many Examination Boards exist in India?
What body in India provides policy directions to schools?
Along with trusts, what other non-profits are allowed to run schools in India?
What country has the most illiterate adults in the world?
What is the full name of the ASER?
What is the purpose of the ASER?
In private schools, what language are classes taught in?
What is the Irish term for private schools?
How do private schools in Ireland differ from most?
What is the typical annual cost for an Irish private school?
Along with the Congregation of Christian Brothers, what is a notable religious group that runs fee-paying schools in Ireland?
What might the fees to attend an Irish boarding school rise to?
In what year did Malaysia receive its independence?
What language is used in Chinese primary schools in Malaysia?
What language is used in Chinese secondary schools in Malaysia?
What is the name of the post-independence government school system in Malaysia?
As a result of a compromise, about how many Chinese schools became National Type schools?
What is a term for schools that receive government assistance?
How are 'un-aided' schools different from 'aided' schools?
Where is Galaxy Public School located?
In Nepalese private schools, what is the primary language of instruction?
In addition to English, what language is also often taught in Nepalese private schools?
How many private schools existed in New Zealand in April 2014?
In April 2014, how many New Zealand students attended private schools?
What percentage of New Zealand students attended private schools in April 2014?
What religion's schools were integrated into New Zealand public schools between 1979 and 1984?
What city, along with Hamilton, Wellington and Christchurch, is one of the largest in New Zealand?
What denomination is the Diocesan School for Girls in Auckland affiliated with?
Where is Samuel Marsden Collegiate School located?
What denomination is associated with Saint Kentigern College?
In what city is Rangi Ruru Girls' School?
What group operates St Dominic's College in Wanganui?
What percentage of Filipino primary school students are in private schools?
In the Philippines, what percentage of secondary school students attend private schools?
What percentage of Filipino tertiary education takes place in private schools?
In what month and year was the revised Manual of Regulations for Private Schools released?
Along with English and mathematics, what subject replaced values education for fourth year students?
What is the name of the scheme that provides tuition and fee assistance to students due to excess enrollment?
What stipend do students enrolled in priority courses receive?
What aid is available to underprivileged students seeking to attend a private university?
What South African law recognized two types of schools?
In what year was the South African Schools Act passed?
Along with public schools, what type of school was recognized under the South African Schools Act?
In South Africa, along with privately governed schools, what schools are classified as independent?
In what century did missionaries notably establish church schools in South Africa?
After apartheid, what types of schools are referred to as "Model C" schools?
How do academic results in former Model C schools compare to other schools?
How do the fees at former Model C schools compare to those at other schools?
As of 2008, about what percentage of Swedish students attended private schools?
About many students attend Kunskapsskolan schools?
How many people work for Kunskapsskolan schools?
What is the English translation of Kunskapsskolan?
What school model is Sweden notable for?
Up to what age do students in the United Kingdom attend preparatory schools?
What schools do preparatory schools prepare British children to attend?
What percentage of British children are educated at GSCE level in fee-paying schools?
At A-level, what percentage of British students attend fee-paying schools?
What is the upper range of annual fees for non-boarding students in British public schools?
What court case desegregated schools in the United States?
What is a derogatory term for the Christian academies that arose in the wake of school desegregation?
In what part of the United States did many students migrate to Christian academies during the desegregation period?
What was the primary race of students attending Christian academies after the Brown decision?
School desegregation in the United States led to an increased number of students of what ethnicity in public schools?
Along with tuition, scholarships, vouchers, donations and grants, where does funding for private schools come from?
What amendment to the United States Constitution governs government funding of religious schools?
What state constitutional amendments make reference to the government funding religious schools?
Granting what status would allow private non-religious schools in the US to receive public funds?
What was the first US state to have compulsory education?
In what year did Massachusetts first require children to be educated in schools?
In what year was Wisconsin v. Yoder decided at the Supreme Court?
What is the citation for the Pierce v. Society of Sisters case?
Who was the opposing party in the Runyon case?
About how much did a New York City day school cost annually in 2012?
What would a parent have to pay to send their child to a boarding school in 2012?
What notable private school has an endowment of several hundred million dollars?
In addition to endowments and tuition, how do boarding schools cover their operating costs?
What individual is the school named after?
When did the undergraduate program become coeducational?
What was the name of the leader through the Great Depression and World War II?
What organization did Harvard found in 1900?
What president of the university transformed it into a modern research university?
What is the worlds largest academic and private library system?
How many individual libraries make up the main school library?
How many volumes are contained in the library?
How many US presidents are alumni of the school?
How many Nobel Laureates are among the school alumni?
What is the major US city that the is the university located?
What is the size of the school's endowment?
What river is located in the vicinity of the school?
How many academic units make up the school?
What is the name of the area that the main campus is centered in Cambridge?
In what year was the school formed?
What organization arranged to founding of school?
What year was North America's first printing press started?
In what year was the school renamed as Harvard College?
In what year was the charter granted for Harvard Corporation?
Ministers of what faith were trained by the university in early years?
After what higher learning model was the school designed?
Was the school officially associated with any denomination?
In what year did Harvard President Joseph Willard die?
What liberal succeeded Joseph Willard as president?
In what year was Henry Ware elected to chair?
in 1846 who's natural history lectures were acclaimed in New York and Harvard?
Agassiz's approach to science combined observation and what?
Common Sense Realism of what Scottish philosophers did Agassiz incorporate in his dual view of knowedge?
What president eliminated the Christian position in the curriculum?
What conviction motivated Eliot to move towards secularization?
From whom were the movement that Eliot followed derived?
Who lead the school back to leading research institution in 2oth century?
How was the school able to bring aboard the best talented students?
In what year of 20th century, did Harvard release an important document about education in America?
What was the ratio of men to women at Harvard/Radcliffe?
In what year did Harvard and Radcliffe admissions merge?
What was the trend of female student population from 1970s and deyond?
How far from state house in downtown Boston is Harvard Yard?
How many residential dorms house upper class, sophomore, Jr, and Sr students?
Along what geographic feature are nine residential houses located?
How far from the Yard is the Quad located?
Where is Harvard stadium located?
What is the name of the bridge that joins parts of the campus of the Charles River?
Where are the Harvard medical, Dental and school of Public Health located?
How much more land does the school own in Allston than Cambridge?
What are some proposals to connect campuses?
What additional benefits are there to surrounding community of expansion?
What is the total number of professors, instructors, and lecturers at Harvard?
What is the enrollment of undergraduates at Harvard?
How many graduate students does Harvard have?
When was the color crimson adopted at Harvard as official color?
What year is the earliest traces of the color Crimson at Harvard?
What was the Harvard endowment total in 2011?
How great were the losses suffered in the the financial crisis of 2008-09 to Harvard endowment?
What project did Harvard halt due to the financial crisis?
What are Harvard's Pell grant reserves?
What is Harvard's total financial aid reserves?
When was the divestment from South Africa movement?
What South African Vice Consul did Harvard students blockade the speech of?
By how much did Harvard management reduce its South Africa holdings in response to pressure?
What is the applicant admission rate for class of 2019?
In what year did Harvard end its early admission program?
Why did Harvard end its early admission program?
In what year was an early admission program reintroduced?
Between 1978 an d2008 four year full time undergraduate students were required to complete how many classes outside of their concentration?
Post 2008 undergraduate students are required to complete how many general education classes towards degree?
What criticism in NY times article that impacts the quality of Education at Harvard?
What is the duration of Harvard Academic year?
How many courses must undergraduates maintain for full time status?
What are the top 4-5% graduating students honored with?
From 2004 to 2005 Harvard reduced the number of students earning Latin honors from 90% to what?
What is tuition for 2012 - 13 year at Harvard?
What is the total cost of attendance in 2012-13?
After 2007 how much do student from families earning less than $60,000 pay for school?
In 2009 what was the total of Grants awarded from Harvard?
What percentage of total financial aid for undergraduates from Harvard was in the form of grants?
What is the center library in the Harvard library system?
What are the 3 post popular libraries for undergraduates in the Harvard system?
Where are America's oldest collection of maps, gazettes, and atlases housed?
How many total volumes are in the Harvard library system?
How many museums comprise Harvard Art Museums?
What does the Fogg Museum of Art cover?
What museum specializes in cultural history and civilizations of the Western Hemisphere?
Starting in what year has Harvard topped the Academic Rankings of World Universities?
Beginning in what year was Harvard on top of the World Reputation Rankings?
According to the Princeton Review where has Harvard ranked as a "Dream College" in 2013
How many intercollegiate sports does Harvard compete in NCAA division I
What is Harvard's most intense rival?
At what time is the Harvard-Yale rivalry set aside?
What was the first year that Yale and Harvard played football?
In what year did Harvard Stadium become the first ever concrete reinforced stadium in the country?
In what year was a set of significant rule changes introduced including the forward pass?
What school was Walter Camp a captain for the football team?
What is the name of Harvard's basketball facility?
What is the name of Harvard's primary recreational sports facility?
How many weight rooms are in the Malkin Athletic Center
Harvard - Yale Regatta predates "The Game" by how many years?
In what body of water is the Harvard - Yale Regatta held?
Who is the primary rival of the Harvard Crimson hockey team?
In what year did Harvard win an Intercolleiate Sailing Association National Championship?
What UN secretary went to Harvard?
What Columbia President went to Harvard?
Who is the Costa Rican President that went to Harvard?
What Harvard Alumni was the Palestine Prime Minister?
What tv host and writer went to Harvard?
What famous conductor went to Harvard?
What is the name of world renowned cellist is a former Harvard student?
What famous civil rights leader called Harvard home?
What Fields Medal winning Mathematician is a faculty member at Harvard?
What prestigious legal scholars are faculty members at Harvard?
What Shakespeare Scholar is a faculty member at Harvard?
Which Florida city has the biggest population?
What was the population Jacksonville city as of 2010?
Based on population alone, what is Jacksonville's ranking in the United States?
In which county does Jacksonville reside?
What year did consolidation cause Jacksonville to become part of Duval County?
What river runs alongside Jacksonville?
How far is Jacksonville from Miami?
What is the name of the French colony established in 1564?
Prior to the arrival of the French, the area now known as Jacksonville was previously inhabited by what people?
What historical figure was Jacksonville named after?
What is the ranking of the military forces in Jacksonville?
What sport attracts most tourists to Jacksonville?
How many naval bases are located in Jacksonville?
What are those from Jacksonville sometimes called?
The area where Jacksonville currently sits has been inhabited for how many years?
Who discovered pottery found on Black Hammock Island?
What civilization did the pottery belong to?
What is the 16th century known as the start of?
What is the name of the village that once existed in what is now downtown Jacksonville?
Who mapped the St. Johns River in 1562?
For what nation did Ribault initially claim what is now Jacksonville?
Who led the attack of the French colony in 1565?
What was Fort Caroline renamed to after the Spanish attack?
Which fort was rebuilt in 1964?
After what event did the Spanish concede Florida to Britain?
Soon after gaining Florida, what did the English do?
Why the narrow part of St. John's River called Cowford?
Who gained control of Florida after the conclusion of the Revolutionary War?
When was the Jacksonville town charter approved?
Supplies from Jacksonville were in support of which faction in the Civil War?
What was the name of the battle that marked the first Confederate win in Florida?
After what battle did Union forces return to and occupy Jacksonville for the rest of the war?
What factors negatively impacted Jacksonville following the war?
In what year was the battle that resulted from a Confederate cavalry unit attacking a Union expedition?
During which period did Jacksonville become a popular destination for the rich?
Which US President visited Jacksonville in 1888?
What caused Jacksonville's tourism to become less desirable at the latter half of the 19th century?
What drew would-be Jacksonville tourists to other Florida destinations?
Other than the steamboat, what modern form of travel brought visitors to Florida?
What caused the spread of the Jacksonville fire in 1901?
How many buildings were razed by the Jacksonville fire?
In the wake of the Jacksonville fire, what did the Florida Governor do?
What was the Jacksonville fire later known as?
Who was drawn to Jacksonville in the 1910s?
What type of movies were produced in Jacksonville's 30 studios?
Jacksonville's popularity for films earned it what title?
What brought the downfall of Jacksonville filmmaking?
What drove residents to quieter suburban housing?
What was the white population of Jacksonville as of 2010?
What term referred to middle class citizens leaving the suburbs?
Who was responsible for the new building projects in Jacksonville?
Jacksonville began to suffer and decline after what major world event?
What was the cause for the issues with city funding?
In what part of the city did residents suffer from a lack of city services?
What was the proposed solution to Jacksonville's tax issues?
Who voted against Jacksonville's annexation?
How were most city officials elected in the 1960s?
How many city officials were indicted due to corruption?
What political group began to gain support following the corruption scandal?
What spurred increased support for government reform?
What was the result of the 1967 referendum?
Who was Jacksonville's mayor at the time of the consolidation?
What was Jacksonville referred to as after the consolidation?
What was the name of the approved measure that helped cover the cost of major city projects?
How did the Better Jacksonville Plan generate money?
What is the land area of Jacksonville?
What river separates Jacksonville?
What is the name of the river that is completely contained inside Jacksonville?
How much of Jacksonville is made up of water?
What town is surrounded by Jacksonville?
What distinction does the Bank of America Tower hold?
The Bank of America Tower was previously known as what?
How tall is the Bank of America Tower?
How many floors are there in the building that was completed in 1967?
What makes the Wells Fargo Center stand out?
What type of climate does Jacksonville have?
When does rain typically fall in Jacksonville?
How is winter weather in Jacksonville described as?
Aside from being located on the coast, what contributes to Jacksonville's lack of cold weather?
What is Jacksonville's hottest recorded temperature?
What is a common occurrence during summer days?
What else contributes to Jacksonville's summer storms other than land heating beside the water?
What is Jacksonville's hottest month on average?
What storm had the most significant impact on Jacksonville?
How fast were the winds around St. Augustine in the 1964 hurricane?
What was the name of the storm that hit Jacksonville in May of 2012?
What is the scale used to measure the strength of hurricanes called?
In what year did a tropical storm cause a four day loss of power to Jacksonville?
What ethnic group located in Jacksonville is ranked tenth largest?
How many residents were recorded in the 2010 census of Jacksonville?
Compared to the rest of Florida, how does Jacksonville's Filipino population rank?
What Jacksonville community is known for having heavy ties to the Navy?
What portion of households in Jacksonville have only one person?
How many of Jacksonville's city residents are younger than 18?
Which gender is more populous across all groups in Jacksonville?
How many men older than 18 are there for every 100 women?
What percentage of global assets does the richest 1% of people have?
According to Oxfam, the 85 richest people have wealth equal to how many average people?
In order to be considered in the top percentile, a person would need to amass how much money each year?
What has caused Oxfam's findings to be questioned?
Why does Oxfam and Credit Suisse believe their findings are being doubted?
What percent of the global assets in 2000 were owned by just 1% of adults?
What do the three richest people in the world posses more of than the lowest 48 nations together?
How much was the combined wealth of the "10 Million dollar millionaires" in 2008?
How much of the global wealth will the wealthiest 1 percent own by 2016?
Why are there more poor people in the United States and Europe than China?
How many Americans are richer than more than half of all citizens?
What publication printed that the wealthiest 1% have more money than those in the bottom 90%?
What is considered as a potential advantage for wealth for some Americans?
What did the richest 400 Americans have as children that helped them be successful adults?
What do the top 400 richest Americans have more of than half of all Americans combined?
Who owns more wealth than the bottom 90 percent of people in the U.S.?
What may explain why some Americans who've become rich may have had a head start?
How many of the richest 400 Americans grew up in substantial privilege?
What Institute published findings in September 2012 regarding the Forbes richest 400 Americans?
What philosophy of thought addresses wealth inequality?
What is income inequality attributed to?
What impacts distribution of wealth when evaluating labor?
What is the term that describes the difference between what higher paid and lower paid professionals earn?
How is income determined in a market with variously skilled workers?
What did Neoclassical economics view the inequality in the distribution of income as being from?
What is distribution of income from labor due to the differences of?
What does the marginal value added by an economic actor determine?
What are examples of economic actors?
In a market economy, what is inequality a reflection of?
What pushes businesses to increase pressures on workers?
What impact does workers working harder have on productivity of a business?
When less workers are required, what happens to the job market?
What impact does higher worker productivity and leveled pay have on higher earners?
What do capitalist firms substitute equipment for in a Marxian analysis?
Why do firms substitute equipment for workers?
What trend increases the organic composition of capital over the long term?
What does the substitution of equipment for labor raise for workers?
What type of wages does mechanization and automation lead to?
What is controled by the market and economy?
Under what law is value of a worker determined?
What happens when business underpays their workers?
How do competing businesses attract workers?
How is income inequality generally viewed by workers?
What controls wages in a purely capitalist mode of production?
What do wages work in the same way as for any other good?
What can be considered as a function of market price of skill?
What can concentrate wealth, pass environmental costs on to society and abuse both workers and consumers?
What type of outcomes can even stable markets lead to?
What has the tendency to increase wages in a field or job position?
When there are many workers competing for a few jobs its considered as what?
What is the potential earnings for a job where there are few skilled workers but many available positions?
What can lead to higher wages for members of labor organizations?
Who works to get workers higher compensation?
What does many workers willing to work for a lot of time competing for a job that only requires a few workers result in?
What drives down wages in a job with many workers willing to work a lot?
Why does competition among workers drive down wages?
What type of wages result from jobs where there is low supply but high demand?
While competition between workers drives down wages for jobs with a high supply of worker, whose competition drives wages up for the inverse?
What increases with the increase of income inequality?
Survivial is at the heart of what concept for workers?
What type of motivators are food and shelter considered?
What type of motivators are achievement and self determination considered?
What type of entrepreneurship leads to advancements in technology?
What increases entrepreneurship rates at the individual level?
What is the increased rates of self-employment based on?
Survival needs such as income for food and shelter motivates what type of entrepreneurship?
What motivation is opportunity-based entrepreneurship driven by?
What type of impact does opportunity-based entrepreneurship tend to have on economic growth?
What is it called when the tax rate and base amount increase simultaneously?
What tax rate has a direct relationship with income inequality?
What can work to even the distribution of wealth?
What system has an impact on income inequality?
In a progressive tax, what increases as the taxable base amount increases?
What will have a direct impact of inequality in a system that uses a progressive tax?
What can result in more equal distribution of income?
What index is an indicator of the effects of taxes applied to social spending?
What is key to getting the skills needed for high demand jobs?
What do people with lower income have less access to?
What does less education lead to when working?
Who has limited productive potential when faced with less access to education?
What are those with lower incomes less likely to have in order to prepare for the future?
What is an important factor contributing to inequality for individuals?
What does education in an area where there is high demand for workers tend to create?
What type of wages do people unable to afford an education receive?
What does lack of education lead directly to?
What helps to unleash the productivity ability of the poor?
What did Standard & Poor recommend to speed economy recovery?
How much potential economic growth could the United States amass if everyone went through more schooling?
What is the United States at risk for because of the recession of 2008?
Who concluded that the rising income inequality gap was not getting better?
When did economists reach a conclusion with the S&P's rating agency?
When the recovery between the widening gap between the richest citizens and rest of the nation slow?
What did S&P recommend to somewhat remedy the wealth gap?
If the average U.S. worker were to complete an additional year of school, what amount of growth would be generated over 5 years?
What does wealth disparity make the economy more prone to?
When did the high school education movement occur?
What impact did the high school education movement have on the presence of skilled workers?
What impact did the high school education movement have on the wages of skilled workers?
What impacts gender inequality in wages?
What contributed to the decreased inequality between trained and untrained workers?
When was the mass high school education movement?
What did the increase in skilled workers lead to?
How did the education during the high school education movement differ from the subsequent high school education?
What is very important for the growth of the economy?
What can result in creating a poverty trap?
What types of organizations are on a decline in the US which adversely effects economic mobility?
Which set of countries have higher economic mobility than the United States?
How much support is there for the US approach to economic development?
Under which policy are labor unions encouraged?
What is economic liberalism one of the causes of?
What does the U.S. economic and social model have substantial levels of?
What organization is John Schmitt and Ben Zipperer members of?
How much support does evidence provide for the view that labor-market flexibility improves labor-market outcomes?
What level of economic mobility does the U.S. economy have compared to European countries?
What country has low income inequality and high presence of unions?
What do weak labor movement correlate with?
What has had a negative impact on the labor markets in the US?
What has presented problems to the US economy more than other nations?
What is the profession of Jake Rosenfield?
What college is Jake Rosenfield associated with?
What does Rosenfield feel plays the most significant role in expanding the income gap?
What rate of unionization do Scandinavian nations have?
What does high inequality go hand-in-hand with?
What effect does trade with poorer countries have on the workers in richer countries?
What effect does trade with richer countries have on the workers in poorer countries?
What has a bigger impact on the United States' economy more than trade?
What has replaced lower skilled workers in the United States?
What scale does trade liberalization shift economic inequality from?
When rich countries trade with poor countries, whose wages increase?
What does Paul Krugmen think has had an observable effect on inequality in the U.S.?
Compared to other causes, the effect of trade on inequality in America is what?
What has technological innovation and automation replaced low-skilled jobs with?
What is the income inequality gap between genders in Botswana?
What is the gender income inequality in Bahrain?
What is attributed to the income inequality in the United States?
Who does the wage gap between genders provide an advantage?
In many countries, what kind of pay gap is there?
Who does a gender pay gap tend to favor?
What gender is less willing to travel or relocate for work?
Who is the author of the book, "Knowledge and Decisions"?
What does a U.S. census report state that even after other factors there still exists this between earnings of men and women?
What types of programs help to redistribute wealth?
What is the level of inequality in underdeveloped countries?
What introduces inequality to a country?
What leads to lower income inequality?
What profession does Simon Kuznets have?
What did Kuznets argue resulted from stages of development?
What does a country acquire as it develops?
What do the owners of more capital end up having?
What do redistribution mechanisms lead to?
During what time period did income inequality decrease in the United States?
When did income inequality begin to increase in the US?
In what sector are jobs beginning to increase?
In what sector are jobs beginning to decrease?
Who plotted the relationships between levels of income and inequality?
What is a a developing economy's level of inequality bulging out called?
What has recent testing of Kuznets theory with superior data show it to be?
What does Kuznets' curve predict about income inequality given time?
What may be possible for multiple Kuznets' cycles to be in at any given time?
What process attributes new wealth to those that already have it?
According to the wealth concentration theory, what advantage do the wealthy have in accumulating new wealth?
What has the highest impact on wealth accumulation and the resulting income inequality?
What tends to lead to more money?
Where does newly created wealth concentrate?
Who is best able to leverage the accumulation of wealth?
What can significantly contribute to the continuing inequality in a society over time?
Who wrote the book "Capital in the Twenty-First Century"?
What do larger fortunes generate?
What forces should serve as a brake on wealth concentration?
What career does Joseph Stiglitz have?
What type of skills does the market bid up compensation for?
What is used by certain wealthy groups to obtain policies financially beneficial for them?
Income not from the creation of wealth but by grabbing a larger share of it is know to economists by what term?
Higher rates of health and social problems are just two of examples of effects from what?
Why does a lower level of economic growth occur due to high-end consumption?
What is lower in countries with more inequality for the top 21 industrialized countries?
What is a lower rate of social goods an effect of?
In U.S. states, what happens to the life expectancy in less economically equal ones?
What year did Robert J. Shiller win an Economics Nobel prize?
What is the most important problem in the United States and elsewhere?
Persistent unemployment has what effect on long-term economic growth?
What's one factor in eroding self-esteem?
Policies which reduce the inequality associated effects of unemployment support what type of growth?
What nationality are researchers Richard G. Wilkinson and Kate Pickett?
What rates of health and social problems are in countries with high inequality?
How are the rates of social goods in countries with higher inequality?
How many developed countries did British researchers use to gather statistics from?
Health problems were lower in places with higher levels of what?
What did higher material living standards lead to for most of human history?
Where does the pattern of higher income-longer lives still hold true?
What increases rapidly as per capita income increases?
Who lives no longer on average than Greeks and New Zealanders?
How are incomes distributed in Sweden?
What characteristic in recent years has been strongly tied with health in developed countries?
Who created an index of health and social problems?
How many factors of health and social problems did Wilkinson and PIckett identify?
Where are health and social problems most common?
What does child well-being in rich countries correlate most to?
What has crime rate been show to be correlated with in a society?
What is almost identical across all nations and jurisdictions?
Over how many studies have shown that violence is more common in societies with income differences?
What is it estimated that about half of all variation in homicide rates can be accounted for by?
How much of a difference in homicide rates are related to inequality?
What does the utilitarian principle seek for the greatest number of people?
An adobe that provides less utility to one person than another is an example of reduced what?
A dollar spent by a poor person is likely to provide what for them?
What the marginal utility of wealth per income per person do as that person becomes richer?
What will a society with more equality have?
What do conservative researchers fell should be a measure of inequality?
What political leaning does the Cato Institute have?
When was consumption inequality lower than it had been in 1986?
Who wrote "The Hidden Prosperity of the Poor"?
What is Thomas B. Edsall's profession?
What is Raghuram Rajan's career?
What does Rajan feel has created deep financial fault lines?
What is the most recent example of financial fault lines?
What does political pressure push to extend to compensate for stagnating purchasing power?
What has given the American economy a tendency to go "from bubble to bubble"?
What is negatively correlated to the duration of economic growth?
What do high levels of inequality prevent beyond economic prosperity?
What happens to the GDP growth of a country if the income share of the top 20 percent increases, according to IMF staff economists?
What does an increase in the income share of the bottom 20 percent of people of a society result in?
Who matters the most for economic growth?
What do David Castlles-Quintana and Vicente Royuela do for a living?
What does increasing inequality harm?
What was persistent unemployment have a negative effect on?
Why does unemployment harm growth?
Policies which try to control unemployment support economic growth because they reduce what?
What did Stiglitz present in 2009 regarding global inequality?
How does inequality prevent growth?
What are both Branko Milanovic and Joseph Stiglitz?
What has been the main reason for the shift to the view that income inequality harms growth?
What has become the secret to economic growth?
When did Galor and Zeria show new information about inequality?
Inequality in the presence of credit market imperfections has what kind of effect on human capital formation?
What did a 1996 study by Perotti examine?
What is inequality associated with higher levels of?
What do extremely unequal societies tend to be?
What does high levels of inequality do to growth in poor countries?
What does high levels of inequality do for economic growth in richer countries?
Barro found there is little relation between income inequality and rates of what?
What institution does Robert Barro hail from?
When was a study conducted of Swedish counties?
What have studies on income inequality sometimes found evidence confirming?
The Kuznets curve says with economic development, inequality will decrease after what?
Who challenges the notion of the Kuznets curve hypothesis?
What's Thomas Piketty's job?
What does Piketty feel was the biggest factors in reducing inequality between 1914 to 1945?
When were theories developed suggesting inequality may have some positive effect on economic development?
According to a 1955 review, what were savings by the wealthy thought to offset?
What does a 2013 report on Nigeria suggest it's growth has done?
How long does it take for the effects to manifest as changes to economic growth?
What are longer growth spells associated with?
What needs to be made to ensure poorer members of society can participate in economic growth?
What can the growth elasticity of poverty depend on?
What does it take a country with high inequality longer to achieve?
What was Ban Ki-Moon the Secretary General of?
What isn't economic growth sufficient for progress on?
What is held outside the formal legal ownership registration system in many developing countries?
How is unregistered property held in informal form?
Excessive bureaucratic red tape is one of the reasons for what type of ownership?
In some countries over how many steps can it take to build on government land?
What can it sometimes take up to 14 years to get permission to build on?
What do a number of researchers think a shortage of is caused in part by income inequality?
What decreased in number between 1984 and 1991?
Why did the demand for rentals decrease?
What drove increased rental prices in East New York?
What combined with ricing prices to make it difficult or impossible for poor people to keep pace?
How are the certain costs which are difficult to avoid shared?
What are those with lower incomes often unable to manage?
What is the term when middle income earners aspire to obtain the same standards of living as people wealthier than themselves?
What is one method of achieving aspirational consumption?
When people take on debt, it leads potentially to what?
When economic inequality is smaller, more waste and pollution is?
What would be lower if there were fewer people?
What does the current high level of population have a large impact on?
How could human inequality be addressed without resulting in an increase of environmental damage?
What is the vast disparities in wealth attributed to by Socialists?
What does private ownership create a situation of?
What type of income is the vast majority of the population dependent on?
How do socialists think the means of production should be owned?
What would income differentials be if individual contributions were relevant to the social product?
Who argues that the government redistributes wealth by force?
What is the usual form of the government's wealth redistribution?
In an ideal moral society, what would all citizens be free from?
How were some modern economic inequalities created?
When are inequalities in wealth justified, according to John Rawls?
What does the capabilities approach look at poverty as a form of?
In the capabilities approach, grow and income are considered a means to an end rather than what?
What is the goal of the capabilities approach?
How would the capabilities approach achieve it's goal?
What is the definition of agency as it relates to capabilities?
What happens when a person's capabilities aer lowered, as it relates to their income?
What can and old, ill man not do?
What issues may prevent women from working outside the home or receiving education?
Why would rampant violence prevent people from going to work?
What can people work towards if they aren't denied their functionings, capabilities and agency?
Who is the producer of Doctor Who?
What year did Doctor Who first show on TV?
What is Doctor Who's space ship called?
What does the outside of the Tardis resemble?
What type/genre of TV show is Doctor Who?
In what years did Doctor Who originally show on TV?
Who relaunched Doctor Who in 2005?
What Doctor Who spin-off only made it as far as a pilot episode?
Who produced the Doctor Who revival series?
Who played Doctor Who in the revival series?
How many actors have played Doctor Who?
Who followed Matt Smith in the role of Doctor Who?
Which episode was Matt Smith's final one as Doctor Who?
When does Doctor Who transition to a new body?
In addition to a new body, what else changes about the Doctor?
What planet is Doctor Who from?
What vehicle did Doctor Who use for his escape from Gallifrey?
That does TARDIS stand for?
What feature normally allows the TARDIS to disguise itself?
Why does Doctor Who's TARDIS always look the same?
How often does Doctor Who travel by himself?
What enemy of Doctor Who is also a Time Lord?
What does Doctor Who do when his body is mortally damaged?
What type of beings does Doctor Who usually take with him on his travels?
What type of Lord is Doctor Who?
What was the date of the very first episode of Doctor Who?
What creatures were the most popular monsters in the series?
Why was the Dalek script rejected at first?
Who wrote The Mutants?
How long was each episode of Doctor Who?
How many seasons did the BBC produce Doctor Who?
Who ended the series in 1989?
What documentary was shown about Doctor Who?
After cancelling the show, what did the BBC tell the public?
What TV station showed the broadcasts of the original Doctor Who series?
What was the BBC hoping that an independent production firm would do for Doctor Who?
Who approached the BBC in 1989 about relaunching the show?
What network showed a Doctor Who film?
How many UK viewers watched the Doctor Who film?
In what country was the Doctor Who film not successful enough to spawn a series?
What was the name of the first episode of the new Doctor Who series?
What year did Doctor Who finally return to television?
What was the only year that a full series was not filmed since 2005?
Who will be the new executive producer of Doctor Who in 2018?
What type of special Doctor Who shows have been shown each year since 2005?
What years did the original Doctor Who series run?
What new series continues the plot of the original Doctor Who?
What year was the only film version of Doctor Who shown?
Name two series that have been reboots rather than plot continuations.
What other series mentioned returned with a plot continuation?
When did the BBC rebroadcast the first episode of Doctor Who?
How long was the broadcast delay the first time the series premiered?
Who long was the broadcast delay claimed to be the first time the series premiered?
What major event U.S. occurred that made the BBC delay the broadcast?
What other event made the BBC concerned that viewers had not seen the premier of Doctor Who?
What popular phrase is associated with the Doctor Who series?
Who put on a Doctor Who exhibition in 1991?
What was the name of the 1991 Doctor Who exhibition?
What did people vote the Doctor Who series as in a 2011 online vote?
Who conducted the 2011 online vote?
Which show was voted most violent of the BBC shows in a 1972 survey?
How many of the survey respondents considered Doctor Who very unsuitable for family viewing?
What journalist wrote an article defending Doctor Who?
In his defense of Doctor Who, what did Philip Howard compare to the London property market?
What publication did Philip Howard work for?
What image has become linked to Doctor Who?
What does the TARDIS look like?
What is the function of the TARDIS?
Who filed an objection to the BBC using the blue police box in Doctor Who merchandise?
When did the BBC receive a favorable ruling on the trade mark claim?
How many seasons did the original Doctor Who run?
When was the last episode of the original series?
How many episodes were in The Daleks' Master Plan?
What is the name of a Time Lord that Doctor Who has fought?
What was the focus of Season 20 of Doctor Who?
In what year did the serial format change for the Doctor Who series?
How long was each Doctor Who episode in the 2005 revival series (including ads)?
When was an extended episode of Doctor Who shown?
Which episode in 2008 was over an hour long?
In what year did "The Eleventh Hour" play?
How many Doctor Who episodes have been shown, in total?
What is the most common length of Doctor Who episodes?
How many Doctor Who Christmas Specials have been shown?
How long was the longest Doctor Who Christmas Special?
In what year did Doctor Who begin being shown in HDTV?
Who were the first two actors that played Doctor Who?
How many of the episodes produced in the first six seasons are not in BBC's archives?
Which seasons is the BBC missing a total of 79 episodes?
When did the practice of wiping tapes stop?
What years saw the most loss of old shows in the BBC archives?
How did other countries have copies of the show?
Who made early colour videos of the show?
What was the name of the Marco Polo episode?
What type of film were excerpts from the show film on?
How did the BBC get audio versions of the lost episodes?
Who has released official reconstructions of Doctor Who episodes?
Who did the BBC work with to reconstruct some of The Invasion episodes?
What year was The Invasion originally shown?
What animation company worked on some of The Reign of Terror episodes?
When was the Doctor Who series released on DVD?
What term is used to explain a change in the appearance of Doctor Who?
When was the term "regeneration" first used?
What first prompted the regeneration concept?
What term was used for the first regeneration?
What term was used for the second regeneration?
How many times can a Time Lord regenerate?
How many incarnations can a Time Lord have?
In what episode did Doctor Who get a new cycle of regenerations?
In what two serials was the number of regenerations set?
In what year did the film also mention the number of regenerations?
Who played the War Doctor?
What was the name of the 50th Anniversary show?
What actor played the Valeyard?
What was the name of the serial where the Valeyard appears?
What two Doctors does the War Doctor exist between?
What Doctor was first referred to as "his secret"?
Which episode featured the return of William Hartnell?
Which Doctor returned for the "Children in Need" show?
In which episode does the First Doctor see himself?
What was the name of the 50th Anniversary episode?
Which three doctors were in The Sirens of Time?
What special audio recording was released for the 40th anniversary?
Which Doctors were featured in The Four Doctors?
Which Doctors were in Project: Lazarus?
In what year was the Doctor Who 40th Anniversary show?
In what episode does the "Fall of the Eleventh" happen?
In what episode is it brought up that the First Doctor might not actually be the first Doctor?
In what episode was the Fifth Doctor confirmed?
In what episode does the Eleventh Doctor first acknowledge his number?
In what year was the 20th Anniversary special aired?
What is the name of the first Doctor Who serial?
What is the name of Doctor Who granddaughter?
In what year did Doctor Who state that he was the last Time Lord?
In 2005, what did Doctor Who think the condition of his home planet was?
In what episode did Doctor Who acknowledge having had a brother?
What type of creature is usually Doctor Who's companion?
What is the only story of the original series where Doctor Who travels alone?
What relative of Doctor Who traveled with him in the early episodes?
What was the occupation of Doctor Who's other (non-related) companions?
What was the name of the character known as the Time Lady?
Since 2005, what is the gender of Doctor Who's primary traveling companion?
Who were the secondary companions of the Ninth and Tenth Doctors?
Who was the first Doctor to travel with a married couple?
Who is the new companion for the 10th series of the revival?
Who played the companion named Donna Noble?
Who was the executive producer of the 2005 Doctor Who revival series?
When were the Daleks reintroduced in the revival series?
What icons were reintroduced in series 2 of the revival show?
In what series was the Master reintroduced?
Who was reintroduced for the 50th Anniversary special?
Who are the oldest villains from the Doctor Who series?
What planet do the Daleks come from?
What is the primary mission of the Daleks?
What scientist created the Daleks, by mutation?
What is the Daleks' main weakness?
Who is the archenemy of Doctor Who?
What title do both Doctor Who and the Master share?
Who played the Master in the 1996 TV movie?
What literary reference compares the Master to Doctor Who?
Who was the first person to play the Master?
Who first played the Master in the 2007 series?
What was the 2007 episode that featured the Master's return?
In what year did the Master reincarnate into a female body?
What is the nickname of the female Master?
What actress plays the female Master?
Who composed the original Doctor Who theme?
What workshop helped with the creation of the Doctor Who theme?
What kind of techniques were used to create the theme?
When was the last season that this original theme was used?
Upon hearing the final product, what was the creator quoted as saying?
Who recorded the theme played for season 18?
Who created the theme used in 1986?
For which Doctor did Keff McCulloch provide the theme?
Who created the 2005 theme for Doctor Who?
In what show did Murray Gold modify the closing credits theme?
What was the name of the 2007 Christmas special?
What radio station did the Doctor Who theme reach the charts on in 2011?
Which series version had a negative reception from some Doctor Who viewers?
How high did the Doctor Who theme go on the radio charts?
Who was the creator of the theme for the 50th Anniversary special?
Who recorded a version of the Doctor Who theme with spoken lyrics in the 1970's?
Who released a disco version of the Doctor Who theme?
How high on the charts did the Mankind version of the theme go?
What was the name of the Doctor Who-related song released in 1988?
Which Doctor Who-related song reached Number One in the UK?
Who was the most frequent musical contributor to Doctor Who in the first 15 years of the show?
What was the episode name of Simpson's first Doctor Who score?
In what decades was Dudley Simpson most active in contributing to Doctor Who?
What was the last Doctor Who episode that Dudley Simpson wrote music for?
In what episode did Dudley Simpson play a music conductor?
Who has performed all the Doctor Who music since the 2005 Christmas special?
Who performed a benefit concert for the charity Children in Need?
When was a Doctor Who Prom performed?
What Doctor Who mini-episode was shown during the Prom?
Who has composed the Doctor Who incidental music since 2005?
How many Doctor Who soundtracks have been released since 2005?
Which series were featured on the first Doctor Who soundtrack?
What music did the fourth soundtrack feature?
What was the name of the 2010 Christmas special?
When was the soundtrack for series 5 released?
What logo was modified and reused for the 50th Anniversary special?
Which logo had the DW Tardis insignia removed?
What logo is used for all merchandise that features past Doctors?
Which logo was used for the third Doctor Who's last season?
Which Doctor was the current Doctor during the 50th Anniversary special?
The first episode of Doctor Who premiered the day after what famous event in history?
Where have the first episodes of Doctor Who always appeared?
In what years did the show see audiences as high as 12 million?
When was the "Dalekmania" period?
What channel shows repeats of the Doctor Who shows?
When was Doctor Who viewing at its highest level?
What was the main reason for the show's suspension in 1989?
Fans blame the poor viewership of the late 80's to competition from what show?
How popular was Coronation Street in the late 80's?
When was the third period of high viewership for the Doctor Who series?
What station did the 20th anniversary special show before being shown on BBC?
What country showed all three episodes of Silver Nemesis before the BBC did?
In what area did the 1996 television film premier?
How many days was the 1996 film shown ahead of the BBC showing?
When was the debut of the 1983 special called The Five Doctors?
Which Australian TV station has run Doctor Who since 1965?
What did ABC contribute to the 20th anniversary special?
Which station started showing Doctor Who after the SF channel closed?
What did ABC do that was special in 2003?
What Australian channel shows first-run Doctor Who episodes?
What year did TVOntario start showing Doctor Who episodes?
What was the first Doctor Who show that TVOntario ran?
What Canadian cable station started showing Doctor Who in 2009?
Which Doctor Who show was cancelled because it was considered racist?
What science fiction writer introduced the Doctor Who episodes for a period of time?
Who taped video intros for Doctor Who shows in Canada, that included a trivia question?
What played during the closing credits of the Doctor Who episodes?
For which show did Billie Piper tape an introduction?
On what date was series two first shown by the CBC?
What holiday coincided with the first showing of series two?
What countries are the Doctor Who DVDs available to purchase?
What shows were released on Laserdisc?
What is the only episode released on VCD?
What Doctor Who story from 1970 is available on Blu-ray?
What series years are available on Blu-ray?
Who played Doctor Who on stage in the 70's?
What was the name of the Doctor Who play from the 1980's?
What Doctor Who was written without Doctor Who in it?
What was the name of the play performed in the 1970's?
Which actor was a replacement for Doctor Who due to the illness of the main actor?
What Doctor Who spin-off series was commissioned by the BBC?
When did Torchwood premier?
When did the second series of Torchwood play?
What was the name of the story from the third Torchwood series?
Was is the name of the Torchwood series that was mostly based in the US?
Who was the star of The Sarah Jane Adventures?
When did the Sarah Jane series begin?
In what year did the Tenth Doctor appear in the Sarah Jane series?
When did the Eleventh Doctor appear in the Sarah Jane series?
Why did the series end in 2011?
What special was created for the show's 30th anniversary?
What charity benefited from the 30th anniversary show?
Dimensions in Time featured what prominent soap opera?
What type of lenses were needed to see the 3D effects in Dimension in Time?
What was the name of the 3D system effect in Dimension in Time?
What was the name of the Doctor Who special created for Comic Relief?
How many segments did the special originally have?
Who played the first incarnation of the Doctor in the special?
What actress played the last incarnation of the Doctor in the special?
The script writer for the special went on to have what role in the revised Doctor Who series?
What Star Trek episode has a nod to Doctor Who?
Which Family Guy episodes contain Doctor Who references?
What series was created by former Doctor Who producer Russell T. Davies?
What character on Coupling is a Doctor Who fan?
Which fantasy books have references to Doctor Who?
What story was the first Doctor Who audio release based on?
How long was the first audio of a Doctor Who story?
What was the name of the first Doctor Who story released as an LP?
In what year was the first Doctor Who audiobook released?
What was the name of the first Doctor Who radio drama?
Which Doctors were highlighted on the first audio releases on CD?
What series featured Doctors from the revised version of Doctor Who?
What company released the CD versions of the Doctor Who stories?
What year were the first Doctor Who stories available on CD?
When did the Fourth Doctor appear on CD?
In what year did original fiction featuring Doctor Who appear?
When were the earliest Doctor Who books available?
How long has the Doctor Who Magazine been in circulation?
Who is the publisher of the Doctor Who Adventures magazine?
Who began publishing Doctor Who novels in 2005?
When was Doctor Who created?
What company created Doctor Who?
Who has expressed distaste for the canonicity of Doctor Who stories by other media?
Who does not take a position on the canonicity of Doctor Who stories by other media?
When did Doctor Who win an award for Best Drama Series?
What years did Doctor Who win five consecutive awards?
In what year did a Doctor first become nominated for a Best Actor award?
What Doctor Who actress was nominated for an award in 2016?
What award was Michelle Gomez nominated for?
Where is Doctor Who the record holder for most successful science fiction series of all time?
Who holds the record for largest simulcast of a TV drama?
For what type of music was Doctor Who considered a pioneer?
What year did Doctor Who win a Peabody award?
Which Doctor Who show was the largest simulcast of a TV drama?
Which season of Doctor Who won an award for Best Writing in a Children's Serial?
What show is considered the best drama that the BBC has ever produced?
What spot does Doctor Who hold in the 100 Greatest British TV Programs of the 20th Century?
What publication called Doctor Who "The Greatest UK Science Fiction Series Ever"?
What rank does Doctor Who hold in a list of the 100 Greatest Kids' TV Shows?
What was the most revered award that Doctor Who has won?
How many BAFTA TV awards has Doctor Who won?
How many BAFTA Cymru Awards has Doctor Who received?
In what year was Doctor Who rated the third greatest show of the 2000's?
A Doctor Who show featuring Vincent Van Gogh was recognized by what award?
How many times has Doctor Who won the Hugo for Best Dramatic Presentation?
How many awards has Doctor Who been nominated for, over the years?
How many awards has Doctor Who won?
What Doctor Who actor won a Best Actor award in 2012?
What Doctor Who episode won a Hugo Award in 2010?
Which comedian did a parody where a Dalek appears?
Who often plays the Fourth Doctor in comedy parodies?
What weapon does Spike Milligan use against a Dalek?
Who is parodied on programs such as Saturday Night Live and The Simpsons?
What series has an actor doing an impression of the Fourth Doctor?
What kind of university is the University of Chicago?
When was the University of Chicago established?
How many professional schools does the University of Chicago have?
How many academic research divisions does the University of Chicago have?
How many students does the University of Chicago have enlisted?
University of Chicago scholars played a major part in what development?
Who helped develop the first man-made self-sustaining nuclear reaction?
Where is the first man-made self-sustaining nuclear reaction located?
What is the name of the largest university press in the U.S?
In what year will the Barack Obama Presidential Center be finished?
What society founded the University of Chicago?
What person helped establish the school with a donation?
Who was the first president of the University of Chicago?
What year was the university's first president given his position?
What year was the first class taught at the University of Chicago?
Who donated property to the University of Chicago?
Who helped pay for the university's first building structure?
What was the name of the first building built on campus grounds?
How much did Silas B. Cobb pledge to the university?
What is the name of the donor who helped establish the Hutchinson Commons?
In 1890, who did the university decide to team up with?
What year did the university team up with Shimer College?
The university agreed to grant a degree to any graduate of affiliate schoos that did what?
Who disliked the affiliate program?
In what year did the affiliate program end?
Who was the university's 5th president?
What was the name given to the undergraduate college's liberal-arts curriculum?
Why did the 5th president of the university decide to get rid of the football program?
How long did the 5th president's tenure last?
In what year was the university's 5th president granted his position?
In what year did the university first see a drop in applications?
Why did the university see a drop in applicants?
When were Shimer College students allowed to transfer to the University of Chicago?
The urban renewal project was intended to help the residents of what neighborhood?
What did the early entrant program do for potential students?
In what year did student decide to occupy the president's office?
What made the student decide to occupy the president's office in protest?
In what year was the Kalven Report issued?
How many pages was the Kalven Report statement?
What policy did the Kelven Report contain?
When did the university decide to start multimillion-dollar expansion projects?
What institute did the university announced to everyone in 2008?
How much did the Milton Friedman Institute roughly cost?
What buildings held the Milton Friedman Institute?
Who decide to make a very large donation to the university's Booth School of Business?
What are the first buildings the university built knows as today?
How many quadrangles does the Main Quadrangles have?
Who helped designed the Main Quadrangles?
The Mitchell Tower is designed to look like what Oxford tower?
Hutchinson Hall was designed to look like what Oxford hall?
During what decade did the campus start to look more modern?
Who was assigned to design a second master plan?
What administration did Ludwig Mies van der Rohe designa buiding?
What public policy school found it's home in the building that Ludwig Mies van der Rohe designed?
When was the Gerald Ratner Athletics Center constructed?
What other locations can the Booth School of Business be found?
The Center in Paris is located near what river?
The university established a center in Beijing in what year?
The university's center in Beijing is located next to what school's campus?
What year did the university open a center in Hong Kong?
Who runs the University of Chicago?
How many people belong to the university's Board of Trustees?
How many Vice Presidents are in the Board of Trustees?
What is the name of the Chairman of the Board of Trustees?
Who took Isaacs place as Provost in 2016?
Who is the university accredited by?
The academic body of the university is made up of how many divisions of graduate?
The academic body of the university is made up of how many professional schools?
How many academic majors does the university grant in total?
How many academic minors does the university grant in total?
How many divisions make up the academics of the university?
What division offers more then one branch of studies that don't fit in with the other four?
What is the name of the university's core curriculum?
During 2012-2013, how many student were able to take the Core classes at a single time?
UChicago claims to have what kind of learning experience compared to other universities?
What guide states the Univeristy of Chicago is known for their heavy workload and academic difficulty?
What is the name of the private day school for K-12 students the university runs?
What is the name of the residential treatment program the university runs?
How many public charter schools does the university run?
What does the Urban Education Institute help run?
Where is the Hyde Park Day School located?
The University of Chicago Library system has how many libraries in total?
How man volumes does the The University of Chicago Library system hold?
What is the name given to the university's main library?
In what year was the Joe and Rika Mansueto Library constructed?
How many volumes does the John Crerar Library roughly hold?
How many research institutes does the university run on campus?
How many research centers does the university run on campus?
What is the name of the museum and research center for Near Eastern studies, that is owned by the university?
What lab does the university have a joint stake in?
Where is the Apache Point Observatory located?
What role in economics did the university play a major part in?
What was the name of the first self-sustained man-made nuclear reaction?
What was the name of the experiment that tested how life originated?
When was REM sleep discovered?
Since what year did the university offer a doctorate in music composition?
Since what year did the university offer a doctorate in Cinema & Media studies?
When did the university start having a bachelor's degree program in Cinema & Media studies?
When did the university start having a bachelor's degree program in theater & performance studies?
Around roughly how many students enroll yearly in creative and performing arts classes?
In the fall quarter of 2014, how many students signed up for the college?
In the fall quarter of 2014, how many students signed up for the university's four graduate divisions?
In the fall quarter of 2014, how many students signed up for the university's professional schools?
In the fall quarter of 2014, how many students signed up for the university's in total?
Who made up 19% of the student body in the 2012 Spring Quarter?
The Maroons are apart of what association?
The Maroons compete in what league division?
The university was a founding force behind what conference?
What player first won the Heisman Trophy for the university?
Why did the university eventually leave the conference?
Roughly how many clubs are ran at the university?
What is the name of the organization in charge of running the clubs at the university?
What club won 118 tournaments and 15 national championships?
What is the name of the country's longest continuously running student film society?
What is the name of the student improvisational theater troupe?
Who makes up the Student Government?
Who leads the Student Government?
How many vice presidents are on the Student Board?
Roughly how much is the Student Government's budget?
How many fraternities are apart of the university?
How many sororities are apart of the university?
What is the name of the co-ed community service fraternity?
How many sororities belong to the National Panhellenic Conference?
How many fraternities form the University of Chicago Interfraternity Council?
In what month is the university's scavenger hunt?
In what year did the scavenger hunt begin?
What does FOTA stand for?
What is the name of the winter festival held in January that is based on fitness?
What is the name of the university's summer festival?
What Microsoft CEO is also an alumni of the University of Chicago?
Who was the founder of the Oracle Corporation?
Who is the third riches man in America?
What Goldman Sachs CEO is also an alumni of the University of Chicago?
Who founded McKinsey & Company?
Who is the founder of modern community organizing?
What alumni was also Obama's campaign adviser?
What alumni was also an Attorney General and a federal judge?
What alumni is also the Governor of the Bank of Japan?
What prohibition agent was also an alumni at the university?
What alumni wrote "The Closing of the American Mind"?
What is the name of the American writer and satirist who is also a university alumni?
What alumni member also write the bestseller Before I Fall?
What alumni wrote "The Good War"?
What is the name of the Pulitzer Prize novelist who was also a university alumni?
What minimalist composer is also a university graduate?
What is the name of the Bungie Inc. founder who is also a university graduate?
What video game series did Alex Seropian make?
What American actor is also a university graduate?
What comedian is also a university graduate?
What astronomers is also a university alumni member?
What NASA astronaut is also a university alumni member?
What popular environmentalist is also a university alumni member?
Who developed the lithium-ion battery?
What geochemist developed the uranium-lead dating method into lead-lead dating?
What Nobel Memorial Prize in Economic Sciences winner is also a university alumni member?
What British Prime minister advisor is also a university alumni member?
Who was the first American to win the Nobel Memorial Prize in Economic Sciences?
What university alumni member was known for his work on portfolio theory?
What anthropologists are also university alumni members?
What chess grandmaster is also a university alumni?
What conservative international relations scholar is also a university alumni?
Who calculated the speed of light?
Who discovered the Compton Effect?
Who invented the first nuclear reactor?
Who is also known at the father of the hydrogen bomb?
Who was the second female Nobel laureate?
What Egyptologist was also apart of the university's faculty?
What mathematician was also apart of the university's faculty?
What meteorologist was also apart of the university's faculty?
Who developed the actinide concept?
What cancer researchers were also apart of the university's faculty?
Who is the governor of India's central bank?
Hank Paulson is the former Chairman and CEO of what banking firm?
What Shakespeare scholar is currently on the university's faculty?
What well known political scientists are currently on the university's faculty?
What paleontologists are currently on the university's faculty?
What is the Chinese name for the Yuan dynasty?
What is the Yuan dynasty's official name?
Who started the Yuan dynasty?
Who led the Mongolian Borjigin clan?
When did Khan formally declare the Yuan dynasty?
What non-Chinese empire did the Yuan dynasty succeed?
What dynasty came before the Yuan?
What dynasty came after the Yuan?
Who was Kublai Khan's grandfather?
When did Khan establish the Great Yuan?
What writing inspired the name Great Yuan?
What was the Yuan dynasty called in Mongolian?
What does Yeke Mongghul Ulus mean?
What nominal title did Yuan emperors have?
Which tribes did Genghis Khan unite?
When did Genghis Khan become Great Khan?
Who was Genghis's 3rd son?
When did Mongke Khan become Great Khan?
What was Kublai Khan's relation to Ogedei Khan?
Who did the Han Chinese want to help the Mongols fight?
What Khitan leader defected to the Mongols?
What Han Chinese leader defected to the Mongols?
How many soldiers were in each Tumen?
How many Khitan Tumens were there?
What ethnicity was Shi Tianze?
In what dynasty did Tianze live?
What kind of interethnic marriage became common in the Jin dynasty?
Who was Shi Tianze's father?
What dynasty did Zhang Rhou help attack?
Who led a Mongol attack on the Song dynasty?
Where did Mongke Khan attack the Song dynasty?
When did Mongke Khan die?
Who challenged Kublai Khan's right to succeed Mongke Khan?
What Chinese era name did Kublai adopt?
Who was Kaidu's grandfather?
Where did the Song dynasty continue to cause problems for Kublai?
Who did Kublai make the ruler of Korea?
Where did Korea border Kublai's territory?
When did Li Tan lead a revolt?
What did Kublai's government have to balance between?
What administrative division did Kublai leave unmodified?
Who would have been the lowest-ranked class?
How many societal class divisions were in the plan Kublai rejected?
What natural resources did the Chinese government have a monopoly on?
Where had the Mongol capital been before Kublai moved it?
Where did Kublai move the Mongol capital to?
When did Kublai move the Mongol capital?
What city later became Beijing?
What rituals did Kublai follow to help his image?
What kinds of growth did Kublai encourage?
What does 'Pax Mongolica' mean?
Where did the Grand Canal start?
Where did Kublai extend the Grand Canal to?
Who described Kublai's China to Europe?
Who did Duke Yansheng Kong Duanyou flee with?
When did the Jin dynasty begin?
When did the Jin dynasty end?
Who was appointed as the replacement for Duke Yansheng Kong Duanyou?
How many people in Quzhou are descended from Confucius?
Where did Kublai build his administration's strength?
When did Kublai attack Xiangyang?
What area was Kublai trying to capture by attacking Xiangyang?
What was the Song dynasty's capital?
How did the final Song emperor die?
When was Kublai's administration running out of money?
What interfered with Kublai's second invasion of Japan?
Where did the Tran dynasty rule?
In what battle were the Mongols defeated by the Tran?
When were the Mongols defeated by the Tran?
When was Dali conquered by the Yuan?
Who had Kublai wanted to succeed him?
When did Zhenjin die?
What was Temur Khan's Chinese-style name?
When did Temur rule?
Who was the 4th to rule the Yuan dynasty?
What did the Mongol elites wish Buyantu didn't do?
Who mentored Buyantu?
What government department did Buyantu shut down?
When did Buyantu resume testing potential government employees?
Who was Ayurbarwada's son?
When was Geegen the emperor?
Who did Gegeen appoint as grand chancellor?
What did 'Da Yuan Tong Zhi' mean?
How many rival princes were involved in assassinating Gegeen?
Where did Yesun Temur die?
What was the civil war against Ragibagh also called?
How long after a banquet with Tugh Temur did Kusala die?
Who was thought to have killed Tugh Temur?
Who took the throne after Kusala's death?
What was Tugh Temur known for?
What academy did Tugh Temur found?
When did Tugh Temur found his academy?
What was the most notable publication of Tugh's academy?
What religions did Tugh Temur follow?
When did Tugh Temur die?
What Chinese-style name did Rinchinbal use?
How old was Toghun Temur when he became emperor?
How many successors of Kublai was Toghun the last of?
Which dynasties' histories were officially documented during Toghun's reign?
What problems did the Yuan dynasty have near its end?
Why did Kublai's successors lose control of the rest of the Mongol empire?
Who were later Yuan emperors isolated from?
What were the Yuan armies too weak to stop?
What were later Yuan emperors disinterested in?
When did the Yuan people suffer a series of natural disasters?
What uprising began in 1351?
Why did Toghun Temur dismiss Toghtogha?
Who had Toghtogha tried to defeat?
When was the Ming dynasty in power?
What encouraged trade under the Yuan?
What encouraged cultural exchange under the Yuan?
What was the Yuan's Persian ally?
What crops were introduced or popularized in the Yuan?
What type of musical instruments did the Yuan bring to China?
Besides Confucianism, Buddhism, and Islam, what religions were tolerated during the Yuan?
What religion did the Yuan discourage, to support Buddhism?
What type of practices did the Yuan reintroduce in government?
What fields of study were advanced during the Yuan?
Who was the first known European to visit China and return?
What did Polo call the Yuan capital?
What was the English title of Polo's book?
What was the Italian title of Polo's book?
How did some suspect that Polo learned about China instead of by actually visiting it?
What astronomer worked for Kublai?
How accurate did Guo make the reformed lunisolar calendar?
What did Kublai do to prevent famines?
What city did the Grand Canal reach during the Yuan?
What major crop was brought to China from the west?
The Yuan was the first time all of China was ruled by whom?
What did Mongols worship?
What legitimate dynasty came before the Yuan?
What legitimate dynasty came after the Yuan?
Some Chinese considered the Yuan a legitimate dynasty, but what did other Chinese think it was?
What cultures were part of Kublai's administration?
What dynasties inspired the Chinese-like elements of Kublai's government?
Who were two of Kublai's Chinese advisers?
What kind of division of power did Kublai's government have?
What were the three parts of Kublai's government?
Who had military control during the Yuan?
When had the Six Ministries existed?
Who were exempt from the Ministry of Justice?
Who had no real military power during the Yuan?
When was Phags-pa script invented?
Which languages used the Phags-pa script?
How well did the Mongol Emperors know Chinese?
The mother of which emperor was a concubine?
What was Tugh's Chinese-style name?
By what year was selling children into slavery common among the Mongols?
When did Kublai ban the international Mongol slave trade?
How were the Mongol garrison families earning money?
What type of arts flourished in the Yuan?
Which arts were often practiced together by the same artists?
What dynasty shared artistic inspiration with the Yuan?
What form of poetry was developed in the Yuan?
What was a popular type of variety show during the Yuan?
Which khanates had converted to Islam?
Which religion did Kublai prefer?
What was the Yuan's unofficial state religion?
What government agency supervised Buddhist monks?
What was Kublai's favorite sect of Tibetan Buddhism?
When was Zhu Shijie born?
When did Zhu Shijie die?
What modern math concept did Zhu Shijie do work similar to?
What type of math was advanced during the Yuan?
When did Zhu publish 'Jade Mirror of the Four Unknowns'?
What did Guo Shoujing do for calendars?
What did Gou use for astronomy?
What was the Chinese name of Gou's calendar?
What was the English name of Gou's calendar?
When did Gou's calendar become the official calendar of the Yuan?
Who were otachi?
What type of medicine did otachi focus on?
What type of medicine did Mongol shamans use?
What department did Kublai create to train doctors?
Why did Confucians like the medical field?
How many schools of medicine were recognized in China?
How did the Yuan come to have the 4 schools of medicine?
How did Chinese medicine spread?
What techniques did Chinese medicine include?
When did Wei Yilin die?
What was huihui?
Who founded the Office of Western Medicine?
When was the Office of Western Medicine founded?
What aspect of Western medicine did the Chinese dislike?
What philosophies underlay Chinese medicine?
How did the Mongols acquire Chinese printing technology?
Who wrote the Nong Shu?
When was earthenware movable type invented?
Who was Ogedei's wife?
When was the Imperial Library Directorate established?
What was the Yuan's paper money called?
What were chao made out of?
When did the Yuan begin using bronze printing plates for its money?
What had the Yuan used to print its money before bronze plates?
When did the Il-khanate experiment with paper money?
What Mongolian system did Kublai's government compromise with?
What Chinese system did Kublai's government compromise with?
Who were the Semuren?
How did the unequal treatment of Chinese versus Mongols in the Yuan make the dynasty seem?
Where were Persians more successful compared to Chinese in the Yuan?
Who did the Mongols bring to China as administrators?
Who did the Mongols send to Bukhara as administrators?
Where in Central Asia did the Han Chinese move?
What types of work did the Han do in Central Asia?
Who was made Governor of Samarqand?
What Yuan policies did Muslims dislike?
What Jewish practice did the Yuan ban?
Who founded the Ming dynasty?
What was the second meaning of a Chinese word for 'barracks'?
Who revolted in the Ispah Rebellion?
Who thought that the Yuan's social class system shouldn't be called social classes?
What did Mote think the Yuan class system really represented?
There were many Chinese with what unexpected status?
There were many Mongols with what unexpected status?
Which part of China had people ranked higher in the class system?
Which part of China had people ranked lower in the class system?
Why were Southern Chinese ranked lower?
Why were Northern Chinese ranked higher?
Who did the Yuan's increase in commerce help?
Who did the Mongols give control of Korea?
Who was the Uighur King of Qocho ranked above?
Who was the Karluk Kara-Khanid ruler ranked above?
Why were the Uighurs ranked higher by the Mongols?
What region of China is Hebei part of?
Who governed the Central Region in the Yuan?
Where was the Central Secretariat based?
What modern city did Khanbaliq become?
What was the Chinese name for the Central Secretariat?
Where is Kenya located?
What is Kenya a founding member of?
What is the capitol of Kenya?
What country boarders the south of Kenya?
What was the population of Kenya in 2014?
What type of climate does Kenya have?
How is the climate near the savannah grasslands?
What mountain has snow on it all year round?
What regions do the north-eastern part of the country boarder?
What is Kenya known for?
How long has the African Great Lakes region been inhabited?
When did the Bantu expansion reach the area from West-Central Africa?
Where is 97% of the population located?
When did the exploration of the interior begin?
When did Kenya obtain independence?
What is the Republic of Kenya named after?
What words to they think are linked to the work Kenya?
What do the words Kirinyaga, Kirenyaa, and Kiinyaa mean?
Ludwig Krapf recorded the name was what?
What do some believe about this pronunciation?
Who was the Scottish geologist that named Mt Kenya as Mt Kenia?
What year did Thompsons indicate Mt Kenya?
What are the biggest game animals of Kenya called?
What are the "Big Five" animals in Kenya?
Where are these animals mostly located?
When does the annual animal migration occur?
How far do the wildebeest migrate searching for food and water?
How long ago did primates inhabit Kenya?
When did the ancestors of modern Homo sapiens inhabit Kenya?
Who helped discover the Turkana Boy?
How old was Turkana Boy?
Who was responsible for the preliminary archaeological research at Ologesailie and Hyrax Hill?
Who build the major port city in Kenya?
What is the name of the port city that was created?
What voyager said that Mombasa was a great harbour and moored small crafts and great ships?
Where do many merchants and explorers go?
What is an important Swahili settlement along the coast?
When was the City of Malindi established?
When was the outbreak of World War I?
What two governors agreed to a truce to protect their young colonies?
Who was in command of the German military forces?
How did von Lettow conduct his group?
Where did von Lettow surrender at?
Where were the Kikuyu people located?
How did the Kikuyu people live?
How did the settlers protect their interests?
How many white settlers were living in Kenya in the 1950's?
When was Waruhiu Itote captured?
What did this help accomplish?
When did Operation Anvil open?
How many of the Mau Mau did Home Gaurd kill?
What was the most important governmental change to land tenure?
When was the first direct elections for native Kenyans?
Who formed the government in Kenya?
When did the different colonies come together and form Kenya?
When did Kenya become an independent country?
What did Kenya name itself on December 12, 1964?
What is the mlolongo system?
What did mlolongo system lead to?
Who won the elections in 1992 and 1997?
What kind of government does Kenya have?
What titles are the President given?
Who is the executive power?
Who is in control of legislative power?
What branch is independant of the other branches?
Where does Kenya rang on the CPI scale?
What does the CPI scale measure?
Where is Kenya place on the scale in 2012?
How does Kenya curb coruption?
What party is President Kibaki part of?
Who did President Kibaki run against?
What led to protests and open discrediting of the ECK?
Who called themselves the "People's President"?
What did the government and civil society organisations start after the riots?
What group initiated the community dialogues?
What group started peace meetings?
What was started after these new programs were in place?
When did Kibaki and Odinga sing an agreement on the formation of government?
What would be Odinga's role in the government?
Where did the president appoint cabinet members from?
How was it determined how many from each camp would be appointed?
How long would this coalition last?
What will the Prime Minister have power over?
Who brought together the former rivals at the signing ceremony?
Where was the signing held?
When did representatives start working on the finer details of the deal?
What was the goal of the grand coalition?
What constitutional change was considered?
When was a vote help to ratify the change to the constitution?
What else did the new consitution change?
When was the new constitution promulgated?
What came into force after the new constitution was herald?
When did President Uhuru Kenyatta sign a Security Law Amendment Bill?
Why was this bill nessecary?
Who criticised the security bill?
Why did so many not approve of the bill?
Who warned of the potential impact?
What was the result of the 2007 election?
Who decided not to come visit the country in 2013?
Where did Kenyatta visit at the invitation of the President?
When did Obama finally visit Kenya?
What kind of missions are the armed forces regularly deployed for?
What was part of the aftermath of the elections in 2007?
What kind of allegations were brought after the 2007 election?
What other forces were tainted by corruption allegations?
Why has the corruption not be in the public view?
What were the claims of corruption in the armed forces?
What else was publically questioned?
What is Kenya's HDI?
Who is the biggest and most advanced economy in east and central Africa?
How much does 17.7% of the population live on a day?
What kind of market is Kenya considered?
What was East and Central Africa's economy boosted by?
What is an important catalyst of economic growth?
What is the smalled work force sector?
What percent of the labor force work in agriculture?
How much does the services sector contribute to GDP?
What is the service sector dominated by?
Has the tourism sector had growth or reduction?
What attracts the tourists to Kenya?
Where is the largest number of tourist coming from?
How much of the GDP was agriculture in 2005?
What are the principal cash crops in Kenya?
What is the second largest contrubtor to Kenyas GDP?
What can cause fluctuations in the production of corn?
What institution has helped farmers grow new pigeon pea varieties?
Why did they teach them to grow peas?
How did the project encourage the commercialisation of legumes?
How did this effect the producer prices?
What has the increase of prices caused?
Where is the most successful agricultural prodcution regions?
What is grown in the fertile highlands?
Where does the livestock of the country normally dominate?
What percent live below the povertly line?
What program did Red Cross put together in 2011?
What country is the most industrially developed country in the African Great Lakes Region?
How much of GDP does manufactoriing account for?
What are the three largest urban areas in Kenya?
What does the sector known as Jua Kali engage in?
What has given a boost to manufacturing in recent years?
What year did AGOA take effect?
Where does the largest part of Kenya's power come from?
Where are these dams located?
When was Kenya Electricity Generating Company established?
Where does Kenya have deposits of oil?
How many barrels of oil is it estimated Kenya has?
What is Kenya doing to determine if there are more reserves?
How much does petroleum account for of the national import bill?
How much is China's investment in Kenya?
What does China's investment mean for Kenya?
What did the Kenyan business people hope for when meeting with the Chinese?
Where did the first shipment of minerals ship from?
What has caused China to suspend their railway project?
What did Kenya reveil in 2030?
What is Vision 2030?
What was their first plan that was launched?
Why did Vision 2030 add the NCCAP?
What will ensure and create the framework for the Action Plan to work?
Where are most working children working?
What percent of girls are in prostution in Kenyas coastal areas?
What is the age range of most prostitutes in Kenya?
What are some of the causes of child labor?
What language is spoken in Kenya?
What are the two official languages?
Where is English spoken the most?
Where is British English usually used?
What is the main religion in Kenya?
What is the main denomination of Christians in Kenya?
How many followers does The Presbyterian Church of East Africa have?
Where is the only Jewish synagogue located?
How many Kenyans are non-religious?
What percent of the Muslim population lives in Kenya's Coastal Region?
What religion is the western region mostly?
How much of the population is Hindu?
Who treats the majority of the population medically?
Who sees a patient after a nurse can not help anymore?
How many registered nurses were in Kenya in 2011?
How many doctors were in Kenya in 2011?
What directly correlates with the country's economic performance and wealth distribution?
How many Kenyans are living below the poverty level?
What are the biggest burdens?
What is to blame for the burdens in health care in Kenya?
How many cases of malaria did Kenya report in 2006?
Who introduced the first system of education?
When did Kenya gain independance?
What was formed to introduce changes that would reflect the nation's sovereignty?
What did the Ominde Commission do?
What system was adopted for education?
What was the Presidential Working Party on the Second University commissioned to do?
What did they want the educational system to be?
What is the edcuation system currently?
When did the last batch of students that followed the former system graudate?
When was the 8-4-4 system launched?
What was the emphasis focuses on?
Why were vocational subjects most important?
When was free primary school introduced?
How much did enrollment increase?
What age does basic education start?
What is the break down of years at different level of education?
What do students do after primary school?
What can students that complete high school have opportunites to do?
What is Kenya's literacy rate?
Preschool targest what age children?
What is preschool required for?
What does the KCPE determine?
What is the exam at the end of Form Four?
Who leads the National and Public Library Servies?
What is the KNLS responsible for?
What is the public library seen as to Kenyans?
Why is the public library known as a people's university?
What sports are Kenyans active in?
What is the country known for?
Who dominates the world of long distance running?
What countries does Kenya compete with for long distance running?
How many gold medals did Kenya win during the Beijing Olympics?
How well did Kenya do in the Beijing Olympics?
What else did Pamela Jelimo win after the Olympics?
Why has there been controversy in Kenyan athletics?
Why do these defections occur?
What sport has Kenyan women been a dominate force?
What is the most successful team sport in Kenya?
When did Kenya reach the semi-finals?
Who is the current captian of the cricket team?
When was the suspension by FIFA lifted?
What is Kenya the home of?
What is the Safair Rally known as?
Who are some of the best rally drivers that have won the rally?
How many meals a day do normal Kenyans eat?
What time do they normally have tea?
What are some normal breakfast foods?
What is normally eaten for lunch and supper?
What organization is the IPCC a part of?
What UN organizations established the IPCC?
What does the UN want to stabilize?
What is the UN's climate change treaty?
What UN resolution endorsed the IPCC?
Who is the chair of the IPCC?
What nationality is Hoesung Lee?
Who is the vice-chair of the IPCC?
Who was the first chair of the IPCC?
When did Pachauri resign as chair of the IPCC?
Who is on the IPCC Panel?
How many people attended the 2003 IPCC meeting?
What kind of people attend the IPCC meetings?
How much of the IPCC attendees are government representatives?
When was the IPCC Trust Fund founded?
Who started the IPCC Trust Fund?
Who funds the IPCC's Deputy Secretary?
What rules does the IPCC have to follow?
Who funds the IPCC's Secretary?
What does the IPCC not do?
Where do IPCC reports get their information?
What is 'grey literature'?
What kind of non-peer-reviewed sources does the IPCC use?
How many coordinating lead authors does an IPCC report chapter have?
How many lead authors does an IPCC report chapter have?
How many contributing authors does an IPCC report chapter have?
Who assembles the authors' contributions?
Who do coordinating lead authors report to?
What does the WG I Summary for Policymakers report say human activities are doing to greenhouse gases?
What do increased greenhouse gases cause?
How much of the greenhouse effect is due to carbon dioxide?
What is the scenario called in which we don't change our greenhouse gas creation practices?
How much has global mean surface air temperature changed in the last century?
When was the joint statement on climate change issued?
How many organizations issued the joint statement on climate change?
Which journal was the joint statement published in?
How sure did the statement say scientists were that temperatures would keep rising?
How much did the statement predict global surface temperature would increase by 2100?
Which IPCC author criticized the TAR?
What did Lindzen criticize about the Summary for Policymakers?
Who responded to Lindzen's criticisms?
What was Houghton's role?
What did Houghton say is necessary for any changes to the SPM?
How does the IPCC prepare Special Reports?
When was the Special Report on Renewable Energy Sources and Climate Change Mitigation (SRREN) issued?
When was the Special Report on Managing Risks of Extreme Events and Disasters to Advance Climate Change Adaptation (SREX) issued?
Why were the 2011 Special Reports issued?
What other activities does the UNFCCC require the IPCC to run?
What is used to estimate emissions?
Levels of what things are used to determine emission factors?
What councils assign tasks to the IPCC?
What did the IPCC say was mistaken?
What did the IPCC apologize for?
What was the source of the mistake?
What report had the correct date?
What was Robert Watson's role in the IPCC?
What direction did Watson say the mistake went in?
What was Martin Parry's role in the IPCC?
What was the topic of the error?
What was the verdict on other alleged errors?
When was the paper published that the "Millennial Northern Hemisphere temperature reconstruction" graph was based on?
Who wrote the paper that the "Millennial Northern Hemisphere temperature reconstruction" graph was based on?
What is the nickname for the "Millennial Northern Hemisphere temperature reconstruction" graph?
What reconstructions supported the 1999 paper's information?
What range of years was the current warming compared to?
Who led the Science and Environmental Policy Project?
Where did Singer hold a press conference in May 2000?
When did Singer dispute the graph at a Senate hearing?
What Senate committee did Singer speak to in July 2000?
Who was the chairman of the House Committee on Energy and Commerce?
Who was Chairman of the Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations?
When did Barton and Whitfield demand climate research records?
Who was chairman of the House Science Committee?
Who said Barton's investigation was "misguided and illegitimate"?
When was the IPCC Third Assessment Report published?
When was the IPCC Fourth Assessment Report published?
How many Medieval Warm Period reconstructions covered 1,000+ years?
What problem did some tree ring data have?
How many Medieval Warm Period reconstructions were used?
When was a study published confirming the 2001 IPCC projections?
How did the 2001 IPCC report compare to reality for 2001-2006?
How did the 2001 IPCC report compare to reality on temperature levels?
How did the 2001 IPCC report compare to reality on sea levels?
What danger did the IPCC understate?
How much did the IPCC Third Assessment Report say sea levels will rise from 1990 to 2100?
How much do researchers now think sea levels will rise from 1990 to 2100?
When was the Third Assessment Report published?
What role did Michael Oppenheimer have in the IPCC's reports?
Who published the State of the Planet 2008-2009 report?
What approach did Oppenheimer advocate?
What has successfully dealt with ozone depletion?
What did the Kyoto Protocol try to address?
Whose goals often still oppose the IPCC?
Who said people involved in the ozone situation had "a better understanding of scientific ignorance and uncertainties"?
What remain unsolved problems with the Kyoto Protocol?
What conflicts did the ozone mitigation reduce?
Who ordered the Stern Review?
What does the IPCC rely on for research?
What can the IPCC's report deadlines cause to be omitted?
Who is seen as the ultimate climate change authority?
How many scientists called to change the IPCC in Feb 2010?
Where was the Feb 2010 call for change published?
What was one proposal to let the IPCC respond to new evidence faster?
How was it suggested that the IPCC avoid political problems?
What is the primary purpose of chloroplasts?
What does ATP store?
What does NADPH store?
What is the process of turning CO2 into organic molecules called?
How many chloroplasts per cell does algae have?
How do chloroplasts reproduce?
What influences chloroplasts' behavior?
How are chloroplasts similar to mitochondria?
What was the ancestor of chloroplasts?
How do plants get chloroplasts?
Which organisms have chloroplasts?
What nationality was Konstantin Mereschkowski?
What was Konstantin Mereschkowski's career?
When did Konstantin Mereschkowski suggest the origin of chloroplasts?
Who said chloroplasts are similar to cyanobacteria?
What are chloroplasts descended from?
What type of organism are cyanobacteria?
What does 'gram-negative' mean?
What kind of cell wall do cyanobacteria have?
How are cyanobacteria sometimes wrongly described?
What kind of cell did cynaobacteria enter long ago?
How long ago did cyanobacteria enter a cell?
What surrounds chloroplasts?
What kind of membrane came from the host?
What happened when cyanobacteria was assimilated?
What does 'plastid' mean?
How many chloroplast lineages are there?
What does rhodophyte mean?
What does chloroplastidan mean?
Which lineage includes land plants?
What chloroplast lineage is Cyanophora in?
What kind of organism is Cyanophora?
What are muroplasts?
What do concentric unstacked thylakoids surround?
What kind of structure is a carboxysome?
What kinds of pigments do rhodoplasts have?
What are rhodoplasts' phycobilin pigments combined into?
What makes red algae red?
What is the benefit of red algae being red?
What is floridean?
What do red algal chloroplasts have that green chloroplasts don't?
Why aren't some forms of Hmatococcus pluvialis green?
What don't chloroplastidan chloroplasts have?
What have some plants repurposed the peptidoglycan layer genes for?
What do green chloroplasts have instead of phycobilisomes?
What kind of membrane do primary chloroplasts have?
What differs about secondary chloroplasts' membranes?
What was the secondary endosymbiotic event?
What additional membranes do secondary chloroplasts have?
What was left when engulfed algae was broken down?
What kind of chloroplasts do Euglenophytes have?
What kind of protists are Euglenophytes?
How are the pyrenoid and thylakoids arranged?
What does paramylon store?
Which membrane was lost in euglenophyte chloroplasts?
What is another word for cryptophytes?
What kind of chloroplasts do cryptophytes have?
What part of cryptophyte chloroplasts is similar to chlorarachniophytes?
Where do cryptophyte chloroplasts store starch?
How do cryptophyte chloroplasts arrange their pyrenoid and thylakoids?
What are Apicomplexans similar to?
What are Apicomplexans a type of?
What is Plasmodium?
What is an apicoplast?
Where do Apicomplexans store energy?
What do apicoplasts synthesize?
What kind of diseases do drugs target apicoplasts for?
What is the most important thing apicoplasts do?
What are apicoplasts missing?
How many membranes do apicoplasts have?
What is only found in peridinin-type chloroplasts?
Where is Peridinin found?
How are peridinin-type chloroplasts' thylakoids arranged?
What have peridinin-type chloroplasts lost?
What lineage is Karlodinium in?
What lineage is Karenia in?
How many membranes does the haptophyte chloroplast have?
What is tertiary endosymbiosis of haptophyte chloroplasts expected to create?
Where did Dinophysis get its chloroplasts from?
What have the Dinophysis chloroplasts lost?
What is the chloroplast of Dinophysis?
What is left of the Dinophysis chloroplasts?
What is another word for diatom?
What is Durinskia's chloroplast?
How many membranes does Durinskia's chloroplast have?
What is sometimes but not always counted regarding Durinskia's chloroplast membranes?
Where does the diatom endosymbiont store starch?
Where do nucleomorph genes transfer to?
What is the only dinophyte that has a non-rhodoplast chloroplast?
What did Lepidodinium viride lose?
What did Lepidodinium viride replace their original chloroplast with?
What is a prasinophyte?
Where did most chloroplasts come from?
What is different about Paulinella chromatophora?
How many base pairs are there in Chromatophore DNA?
How many protein-encoding genes are there in Chromatophore DNA?
How many base pairs are there in Synechococcus DNA?
What is chloroplast DNA abbreviated as?
What is a synonym for chloroplast DNA?
When was the plastome discovered?
When was the first plastome sequenced?
Who sequenced the first plastome?
What seldom mutates?
What have some inverted repeats become?
What could inverted repeats help do?
How is chloroplast replication observed?
How many major chloroplast replication models have been suggested?
What is a Cairns replication intermediate?
What is a D-loop?
How does the D-loop finish replicating?
What kind of gradients does cpDNA have?
What makes DNA vulnerable to deamination?
How does the secondary theory say most cpDNA is structured?
How does the secondary theory say most cpDNA replicates?
Where does the secondary theory say most genes are kept?
What is cpDNA's replication similar to?
What kind of cpDNA does maize have?
How is most plants' cpDNA arranged?
How does most plants' cpDNA replicate?
What shows us lost chloroplasts?
What do donated genes give evidence of?
What kind of chloroplasts do diatoms have?
What kind of chloroplasts did diatoms have but lost?
What is the status of most chloroplast genes in the mitochondrion?
How much of the protein products of transferred genes don't go back to chloroplasts?
What new tasks do the protein products of transferred genes take on?
What do you have to cross to reach the chloroplast in many secondary plastids?
What is the chloroplast polypeptide synthesized on?
Where is the chloroplast polypeptide synthesized?
What does Phosphorylation do?
What is the benefit of polypeptide binding?
How are chloroplasts in land plants usually shaped?
How large across are chloroplasts in land plants?
How thick are chloroplasts in land plants?
What shape is Oedogonium's chloroplasts?
What shape is Chlamydomonas's chloroplasts?
What is evidence chloroplasts descended from endosymbiotic cyanobacteria?
What is incorrectly thought about the outer chloroplast membrane?
How do both chloroplast membranes compare to cyanobacterium's original double membranes?
What is the chloroplast double membrane sometimes compared to?
What does the inner mitochondria membrane do?
What does oxidative phosphorylation do?
What chloroplast structure is similar to the inner mitochondria membrane?
What part of chloroplasts isn't similar to mitochondria?
What are more common in other plastids than chloroplasts?
What is a stromule?
Why do stromules exist?
When were stromules discovered?
Where is the chloroplast peripheral reticulum usually found?
Where is the chloroplast peripheral reticulum less commonly found?
What is a maze of membranous tubes?
What does the chloroplast peripheral reticulum do?
Where do transport vesicles move between?
What do chloroplasts use their ribosomes for?
How large are Chloroplast ribosomes?
How large are Cytoplasmic ribosomes?
What are some Chlorophyta and euglenid chloroplasts missing?
Why is shine-dalgarno sequence recognition important?
What is a single Plastoglobuli called?
What shape are Plastoglobuli?
What are Plastoglobuli made of?
How large are Plastoglobuli?
What surrounds Plastoglobuli?
What are Plastoglobuli attached to?
What do Plastoglobuli exchange contents with?
How are green chloroplasts' Plastoglobuli arranged?
When do Plastoglobuli occur in linked groups?
Where are pyrenoids found?
What shape are pyrenoids?
What do pyrenoids look like?
What do pyrenoids store?
How can pyrenoids replicate?
In what model do grana look like pancakes?
What shape are granal thylakoids?
How many granal thylakoids can be in each granum?
How many granal thylakoids are usually in each granum?
What are frets?
What does chlorophyll absorb?
What do carotenoids absorb?
What does chlorophyll use light energy to do?
What does the thylakoid membrane use the energized electrons for?
What is ATP synthase similar to?
How many types of thylakoids are there?
What distinguishes granal thylakoids?
What distinguishes stromal thylakoids?
What shape are granal thylakoids?
How large are granal thylakoids?
How many photosynthetic carotenoids are there?
What do photosynthetic carotenoids do?
Why do carotenoids make leaves change color in the fall?
What is beta carotene?
What is the most common Xanthophyll?
What are Phycobilins?
What color is phycoerytherin?
What does phycoerytherin appear in?
What are phycobilisomes?
How big are phycobilisomes?
What do chloroplasts use to fix carbon dioxide into sugar?
What is rubisco's flaw?
What effect does rubisco's flaw have?
What process down the line does rubisco's flaw interfere with?
What is wasted by rubisco's flaw?
What are chloroplasts in mesophyll cells specialized for?
What do chloroplasts in mesophyll cells lack?
What do chloroplasts in mesophyll cells specialized use to make ATP?
What do chloroplasts in mesophyll cells store carbon dioxide in?
What do bundle sheath chloroplasts specialize in?
What parts of plants have chloroplasts?
What makes plants green?
What plant cells have chloroplasts in them?
Where can chloroplasts sometimes be found?
What is a chlorenchyma cell?
Where do cacti have chloroplasts?
Where do most plants have chloroplasts?
How many chloroplasts are in stomatal guard cells?
How many chloroplasts are in a square mm of a leaf?
What layers of a leaf have chloroplasts?
When do chloroplasts spread out flat?
When do chloroplasts arrange in vertical columns or turn sideways?
What does turning sideways protect chloroplasts from?
Why do land plants have more and smaller chloroplasts?
What sometimes follows moving chloroplasts?
How many major immune responses do plants have?
What is the hypersensitive response of a plant immune system?
What is the systemic acquired resistance response of a plant immune system?
How do chloroplasts trigger the plant's immune system?
What does damaging photosynthesis systems create?
What molecules act as defense signals?
When do chloroplasts produce defense signals?
What happens to reactive oxygen species signals since they don't leave the chloroplast?
What is retrograde signaling?
What is the most important role of chloroplasts?
What is the process of changing light into chemical energy?
What is chemical energy used to produce in plants?
What are the molecular inputs for photosynthesis?
What are the molecular outputs for photosynthesis?
What do chloroplasts do like mitochondria?
Where do chloroplasts pump hydrogen?
How concentrated do the hydrogen ions get in the thylakoid space?
What does ATP synthase change into ATP?
What does ATP mean?
What usually takes reenergized electrons?
In what process are electrons recycled?
Where is cyclic photophosphorylation common?
What do C4 plants need?
What cycle starts with rubisco?
What is the result of the Calvin cycle?
What do unstable 6-carbon molecules become?
How many G3P molecules leave the cycle?
What is an alternate way to make starch?
When might starch grains become overly large?
What happens when starch grains become overly large?
What root problem can cause starch buildup?
What might starch grains be a side effect of?
What can rubisco do by mistake?
When does photorespiration happen?
Why is using O2 instead of CO2 less efficient?
How much carbon gets wasted by using O2 instead of CO2?
What is unusual about C4 plants' chloroplasts?
Where do chloroplasts make amino acids?
Which amino acids contain sulfur?
What is the problem with cysteine?
What are we unsure of about how chloroplasts make methionine precursors?
What is sometimes used interchangeably with 'plastids'?
What do a plant's chloroplasts descend from?
Where are Proplastids usually found?
What is more often seen in root tip maristems?
What happens if angiosperm shoots don't get enough light?
What is an etioplast?
What do etioplasts' internal membranes have?
What do etioplasts have instead of chlorophyll?
What plants don't need light to make chloroplasts?
What can chloroplasts change into?
What are chromoplasts?
What can amyloplasts become?
What can proplastids become?
When a plant is injured, what can become proplastids?
What do FtsZ1 and FtsZ2 combine into?
What are FtsZ1 and FtsZ2?
What do FtsZ1 and FtsZ2 plus ARC6 form?
Where is the Z-ring?
What gets the Z-ring in the right place?
What are PD rings?
How many PD rings are there?
How large are the outer PD ring's filaments?
How far apart are the outer PD ring's filaments?
What is different about Cyanidioschyzon merol?
What is necessary for chloroplasts to replicate?
What kind of light is important for chloroplasts to divide?
What do chloroplasts look like in spinach grown in green light?
What kind of light is inadequate for chloroplasts to divide?
Why are chloroplasts of interest in GMO crops?
What is reduced by using plastid transformation for gene modification?
What was the containment failure rate in a tobacco plant study using plastid transformation?
What are plants with plastid gene transformations called?
What is the only divisor besides 1 that a prime number can have?
What are numbers greater than 1 that can be divided by 3 or more numbers called?
What theorem defines the main role of primes in number theory?
Any number larger than 1 can be represented as a product of what?
Why must one be excluded in order to preserve the uniqueness of the fundamental theorem?
What is the name of the property that designates a number as being prime or not?
What is the name of the process which confirms the primality of a number n?
What is the name of one algorithm useful for conveniently testing the primality of large numbers?
What is the name of another algorithm useful for conveniently testing the primality of large numbers?
As of January 2016 how many digits does the largest known prime consist of?
How many prime numbers exist?
Who established the amount of prime numbers in existence?
What type of behavior in primes is it possible to determine?
What theorem states that the probability that a number n is prime is inversely proportional to its logarithm?
When was the prime number theorem proven?
What is the name of the supposition that any number larger than 2 can be represented as the sum of two primes?
What is the name of the supposition that there are infinite pairs of primes whose difference is 2?
Besides the analytic property of numbers, what other property of numbers does number theory focus on?
What is the application of prime numbers used in information technology which utilizes the fact that factoring very large prime numbers is very challenging?
What is the name of one algebraic generalization prime numbers have inspired?
Any even number larger than what cannot be considered prime?
What are the specific divisors of all even numbers larger than 2?
What name is given to any prime number larger than 2?
Besides 1,3 and 7, what other number must all primes greater than 5 end with?
What type of numbers are always multiples of 2?
What number did early Greeks not regard as a true number?
Who included 1 as the first prime number in the mid 18th century?
In the mid 18th century, who did not concur that 1 should be the first prime number?
How many primes were included in Derrick Norman Lehmer's list of prime numbers?
What type of number do modern mathematicians consider 1 to be?
Which theorem would be invalid if the number 1 were considered prime?
The sieve of Eratosthenes would not be valid if what were true?
What is another function that primes have that the number 1 does not?
What is one function that prime numbers have that 1 does not?
If 1 were to be considered as prime what would the sieve of Eratosthenes yield for all other numbers?
What is the name of the Egyptian papyrus that suggests that they may have had knowledge of prime numbers?
What civilization was the first known to clearly study prime numbers?
What work from around 300 BC has significant theorems about prime numbers?
Who demonstrated how to create a perfect number from a Mersenne prime?
What does the Sieve of Eratosthenes do?
In what year did Pierre de Fermat declare Fermat's little theorem?
Besides Leibniz, what other mathematician proved the validity of Fermat's little theorem?
Of what form do Fermat numbers take?
Of what form do Mersenne primes take?
To what extent did Fermat confirm the validity of Fermat numbers?
What is the most elemental way to test the primality of any integer n?
What makes the method of trial division more efficient?
Trial division involves dividing n by every integer m greater than what?
How many divisions are required to verify the primality of the number 37?
What must the integer m be less than or equal to when performing trial division?
How many modern types of primality tests for general numbers n are there?
What is the name of one type of modern primality test?
What is the name of another type of modern primality test?
What type of algorithm is trial division?
When using a probabilistic algorithm, how is the probability that the number is composite expressed mathematically?
What is one straightforward case of a probabilistic test?
What does the Fermat primality test depend upon?
What type of numbers demonstrate a flaw with the Fermat primality test?
What is the name of one impressive continuation of the Fermat primality test?
What is the name of another compelling continuation of the Fermat primality test?
Of what form are Sophie Germain primes?
Of what form are Mersenne primes?
What test is especially useful for numbers of the form 2p - 1?
What is the name of one type of prime where p+1 or p-1 takes a certain shape?
What is the name of another type of prime here p+1 or p-1 takes a certain shape?
What is the name of one type of computing method that is used to find prime numbers?
In what year was the Great Internet Mersenne Prime Search project conducted?
the Great Internet Mersenne Prime Search, what was the prize for finding a prime with at least 10 million digits?
What organization offers monetary awards for identifying primes with at least 100 million digits?
In what interval are some of the greatest primes without a distinct form discovered in?
What is name of the function used for the largest integer not greater than the number in question?
Who first proved Bertrand's postulate?
For what size natural number does Bertrand's postulate hold?
How is the prime number p in Bertrand's postulate expressed mathematically?
On what theorem is the formula that frequently generates the number 2 and all other primes precisely once based on?
What is another way to state the condition that infinitely many primes can exist only if a and q are coprime?
If a and q are coprime, which theorem holds that an arithmetic progression has an infinite number of primes?
What is the density of all primes compatible with a modulo 9?
If q=9 and a=3,6 or 9, how many primes would be in the progression?
If q=9 and a=1,2,4,5,7, or 8, how many primes would be in a progression?
What function is related to prime numbers?
What type of value would the zeta function have if there were finite primes?
What property of the harmonic series 1 + 1/2 + 1/3 + 1/4 +... shows that there is an infinite number of primes?
What does it mean when a harmonic series diverges?
Of what mathematical nature is the Basel problem?
When was the Riemann hypothesis proposed?
According to the Riemann hypothesis, all zeroes of the -function have real part equal to 1/2 except for what values of s?
What does the Riemann hypothesis state the source of irregularity in the distribution of points comes from?
What type of prime distribution does the Riemann hypothesis propose is also true for short intervals near X?
What type of prime distribution is characterized about x/log x of numbers less than x?
Which conjecture holds that every even integer n greater than 2 can be expressed as a sum of two primes?
When did Landau propose his four conjectural problems?
As of February 2011, how many numbers has Goldbach's conjecture been proven to?
Which theorem states that all large odd integers can be expressed as a sum of three primes?
Which theorem states that every large even integer can be written as a prime summed with a semiprime?
What conjecture holds that there is an infinite amount of twin primes?
What is a twin prime?
Which conjecture holds that for any positive integer n, there is an infinite amount of pairs of consecutive primes differing by 2n?
Of what form is the infinite amount of primes that comprise the special cases of Schinzel's hypothesis?
What conjecture holds that there are always a minimum of 4 primes between the squares of consecutive primes greater than 2?
Besides the study of prime numbers, what general theory was considered the official example of pure mathematics?
What British mathematician took pride in doing work that he felt had no military benefit?
When was it discovered that prime numbers could applied to the creation of public key cryptography algorithms?
Besides public key cryptography, what is another application for prime numbers?
What type of number generators make use of prime numbers?
Assuming p is a prime other than 2 or 5, then, according to Fermat's theorem, what type of decimal will 1/p always be?
According to Fermat's theorem, what period does 1/p always have assuming p is prime that is not 2 or 5?
According to Wilson's theorem, what factorial must be divisible by p if some integer p > 1 is to be considered prime?
According to Wilson's theorem, what factorial must be divisible by n if some integer n > 4 is to be considered composite?
What condition what must be satisfied in order for 1/p to be expressed in base q instead of base 10 and still have a period of p - 1?
What is one type of public key cryptography algorithm?
What is another type of public key cryptography algorithm?
How many bits are often in the primes used for RSA public key cryptography algorithms?
On what type of exponentiation does the Diffie–Hellman key exchange depend on?
How many bits are typically used in the primes for the Diffie–Hellman key exchange?
What type of insect employs the use of prime numbers in its evolutionary strategy?
Where do cicadas spend the majority of their lives?
Other than 7 and 13, what other year interval do cicadas pupate?
What is the logic behind the cicadas prime number evolutionary strategy?
How much larger would cicada predator populations be if cicada outbreaks occurred at 14 and 15 year intervals?
What does the word prime generally suggest?
For a field F containing 0 and 1, what would be the prime field?
How can any knot be distinctively indicated?
What is an additional meaning intended when the word prime is used?
What does it mean for a knot to be considered indecomposable?
What is the name of an algebraic structure in which addition, subtraction and multiplication are defined?
What is one general concept that applies to elements of commutative rings?
What is another general concept that applies to elements of commutative rings?
What is one condition that an element p of R must satisfy in order to be considered a prime element?
Under what condition is an element irreducible?
What theorem remains valid in unique factorization domains?
What is one example of a unique factorization domain?
What form do complex Gaussian integers have?
What do a and b represent in a Gaussian integer expression?
Of what form are rational primes?
In what theory is the idea of a number exchanged with that of an ideal?
What type of ideals generalize prime elements?
What type of number theory utilizes and studies prime ideals?
Which theorem can be simplified to the Lasker–Noether theorem?
What type of commutative ring does the Lasker–Noether theorem express every ideal as an intersection of primary ideals in?
What are the points of algebro-geometric objects?
What does factorization of prime ideals approximate?
In what type of ring can prime ideals be used for validating quadratic reciprocity?
What does quadratic reciprocity seek to achieve?
What happens to the norm when a number is multiplied by p?
To what may general global fields be transferred to or from?
Completing Q with respect to what will produce the field of real numbers?
What principle highlights the significance of primes in number theory
Which French composer wrote ametrical music using prime numbers?
What is one work by Olivier Messiaen?
What is another piece created by Olivier Messiaen?
In which etude of Neumes rythmiques do the primes 41, 43, 47 and 53 appear in?
Messiaen says that composition with prime numbers was inspired by what?
Where does the Rhine begin?
Where does the Rhine empty?
What is the largest city the Rhine runs through?
What river is larger than the Rhine?
How long is the Rhine?
Where is the Rhine?
What country does the Rhine empty?
How long is the Rhine?
Where does the name Rhine derive from?
What is the French name for the Rhine?
What is the Proto-Germanic adaptation of the name of the Rhine?
What century did the name of the Rhine come from?
What does the name The Rhine come from?
What is the Rhine called in French?
What is the Rhine called in Dutch?
What is the Proto-Germanic adoption of the Gaulish name of the Rhine?
How was the Dutch name for the Rhine originally spelled?
What is the conventional method to measure the Rhine?
When was the scale to measure the Rhine introduced?
Where does the Rhine river's measurement begin?
Where does the Rhine river's measurement end?
What has shortened the Rhine river?
What is the conventional measurement of the Rhine?
When was the measurement of the Rhine introduced?
Where does the Rhine begin?
Why has the Rhine been shortened?
Where does the Rhine end?
Near Chur, which direction does the Rhine turn?
How long is the section of the Rhine near Chur?
What is the alpine valley that the Rhine flows through?
What is the natural dam that the Rhine flows through?
What is the other country the Rhine separates Switzerland to?
Where does the Rhine make a distinctive turn to the north?
How long is the section that turns north?
What is the height of the section that turns north?
What is the glacial alpine valley known as?
The Rhine forms the border between Austria and what other country?
The Rhine forms an inland delta into which lake?
What is the delta in the Rhine delimited in the west by?
What is the delta in the Rhine delimited in the east by?
In local Alemannic dialect, what is the the singular form of the names of the islands formed by the Rhine?
What is the animal that the Rhine's islands are named after?
The inland delta at the mouth of the Rhine is with what Lake?
What delimits the delta of the Rhine in the East?
What delimits the delta of the Rhine in the west?
What did the Rhine branch off to form in Austria?
What is the Almannic dialect to describe the islands outside in Austria?
Where is the upper canal regulation of the Rhine?
What is the lower canal regulation of the Rhine?
Besides constant flooding, why else was there regulation of the Rhine?
After the Dornbirner Ach was diverted, where does the Rhine flow now?
What is expected with the continuous input of sediment into the Dornbirner Ach?
Where was the Rhine regulated with a lower canal?
Why was the Rhine regulated?
Where was the Rhine regulated with an upper canal?
What was diverted and now flows parallel to the Rhine?
What will cause the lake near the Rhine to silt up?
How many bodies of water makes up Lake Constance?
What does Untersee mean?
What lake connects the Rhine to Lake Constance?
Which border does the Rhine flow from the south?
What does Obersee mean?
How many bodies of water makes up Lake Constance?
Besides Germany and Switzerland, where else is Lake Constance?
What mountainous region is Lake Constance by?
Where is the border of Swiss and Austria?
Lake Constance separates the German state Bavaria from what other one?
Why does the Rhine water fall into depths at the Rheinbrech?
What Lake in a German island Mainau receives a fraction of the Rhine's flow?
Where does the cold and warm water meet the warm water?
How much of the lake connecting with the Rhine can you see from the German islands?
What is the Island off of the German shore of the Rhine that this warm and cold water meet?
Where does the cold water mix with Lake Constance?
What island does the cold water flow of the Rhine and Lake Constance flow to?
A small fraction of the cold water flow from Lake Constance goes to what other lake?
What does the word Rheinrinne translate to?
What does the flow of the Rhine being visible depend on?
After the Rhine emerges from Lake Constance, what direction does it flow?
What is the major tributary of the Rhine?
How much water does the Aare give to the Rhine?
Where is the highest point of the Rhine basin?
Where is the so-called Rhine Knee?
When the Rhine emerges from Lake Constance which way does it flow?
What is the major tributary for the Rhine?
The Rhine gets how much water from the Aare?
What is the highest point of the Rhine basin called?
There's a rough border between Switzerland and what other country formed by the Rhine?
What is the first major city in the stream of the Rhine?
What is the bend of Rhine in Basel called?
What is the boundary between the High and Upper Rhine?
How long is the Upper Rhine Plain?
How wide is the Upper Rhine Plain?
What is the first major city in the course of the Rhine?
What is the first major bend in the Rhine called?
The bend on the Rhine goes from the West to what direction?
What ends at this bend in the Rhine?
What is the legal boundary behind the High and Upper Rind?
Which century was there a program to straighten the Rhine?
What happened to the rate of flow in the Rhine during the Rhine straightening program?
What happened to the ground water in the Rhine during the Rhine straightening program?
Which canal was dug in France to carry Rhine's water?
What is the Bassin de compensation de Plobsheim in Alsace?
What region of the Rhine was changed by the Rhine Straightening program?
When did the Rhine Straightening program begin?
What happened with the rate of flow in the Rhine with the straightening program?
What happened with the ground water level with the Rhine straightening program?
What carries a significant amount of the Rhine flow through France?
Where does the Rhine encounter it's tributary the Neckar?
What is the average discharge of the Moselle to the Rhine?
What is the longest river in Germany?
What is a main tributary to the Rhine that goes through Northeastern France and part of Belgium?
What is the average width of the Rhine?
The Rhine is the longest river in what country?
Which country does the Rhine encounter it's main tributaries?
Which of the tributaries in Germany contributes most?
What country does the Moselle take the Rhine to?
How much does the Rhine discharge at the Dutch border?
What flows between the Bingen and Bonn?
What gorge is between the Bingen and Bonn?
How was the Rhine Gorge formed?
What is the area called near the Rhine Gorge with castles from the middle ages?
What flows between Bingen and Bonn?
Where does the Middle Rhine flow between Bingen and Bonn?
What is the Rhine Gorge known for?
What is the section of the Rhine Gorge recognized by UNESCO called?
What contributed to water pollution in the Rhine?
What is Europe's largest inland port?
What rive joins the Rhine in Duisburg?
What does the Ruhr provide to it's community?
Where are a bulk of factories concentrated along the Rhine?
What did industry do to the Rhine until the 1980s?
Which section of the Rhine is most factories found?
What country has the most factories that pollute the Rhine?
What city has the largest inland port in Europe?
Which river joins the Rhine in Duisburg?
Besides viniculture, what's a dominant economic sector of the Middle Rhine?
There's a UNESCO World Heritage site in the Rhine Gorge between the Koblenz and what?
What is the famous rock near Sanke Goarshausen?
What is considered the epitome of the Rhine romanticism?
Besides viniculture, what is the other dominate economic sector in the middle rhine?
What is the Rhine Gorge listed as?
The Rhine Gorge is between Koblenz and what other city?
What is the famous rock called that the Rhine flows around?
Where is the famous rock the Rhine flows around?
What city has the biggest port in Germany?
What is the Canal in Wesel?
What does the Wessel-Datteln canal run parallel to?
What is the largest suspension bridge in Germany?
How wide is the Rhine in Germany between Emmrich and Cleves?
What part of the Rhine flows through North Rhine-Westphalia?
What is the region called that is the largest conurbation of the Rhine?
What is the largest port in Europe called?
What is the name of the longest bridge in Germany?
How wide is the Rhine in Germany?
What does the water flow of the Rhine merge with after flowing through Merwede?
What is the Dutch name for the Rhine?
How much of the water flow does the Waal get from the Rhine?
Which direction does two thirds of the Rhine flow outside of Germany?
Where does two thirds of the Rhine flow outside of Germany?
What does the Rhine merge with outside of Germany?
What's the name of where the Rhine branches off near Dordrecht?
If two thirds of the Rhine flows through the Maas, where doe the other one third flow through?
The Rhine redistributes into the Ijssel and what other body?
What does the Nederrikn's name change into?
Where does the Lek join?
If two thirds of the Rhine flows through Waal, where does the other third flow through?
Other than the Ijssel, where does the water from the Pannerdens Kanaal redsitrubute?
How much of the Rhine flow does Ijssel carry?
What does the Nederrijn change it's name to?
Where does the Nederrijn change it's name?
What is the name for the smaller streams along the region northern Germany?
The smaller streams are used for what?
What is the name of the old north branch of the Rhine?
What is the translation of the old north branch of rhe Rhine?
What part of the Rhine flows west at Katwijk?
What is the name of the Delta in the Netherlands?
Where does the Delta in the Netherlands begin?
What is the nickname for the Delta in the Netherlands?
At Millingen aan de Rijn where the Rhine splits, what does it change it's name to?
How many main flows are branched off from the Nederrijn?
What is the largest main branch of the Rhine?
What is the translation of Oude Maas?
What is the English translation of Het Scheur?
What flood impacted the Meuse?
What year did the flood that impacted the Meuse take place?
Where did the Meuse flow before the flood?
When did the Meuse and Waal merge?
What did the Merwede-Oude Maas form with Waal and Lek?
What do closed rivers serve as after they close?
What changed the Rhine's Delta?
What is the term for closing off rivers that are no longer connected?
When was the construction that changed the Rhine's Delta?
What type of Delta is the Rhine-Meuse?
Besides rivers, what shapes the sedimentation of the rivers?
What does a high tide risk near lands?
Between Brakel and what other city can the most landward tidal influence be detected?
The present Mediterranean Sea descends from what sea?
What period did plates reverse directions to compress the Tethys floor?
Microplates squeezing and rotating created the features of what?
What period opened the Tethys Ocean?
What pushed up the Pyrenees?
What rift system developed in the Alpine orogeny?
What elements from the rift system in the Alpine orogeny in Southwest Germany?
What time did a river system develop in the Upper Rhine Graben?
The Rhine and what other river drained the northern flanks of the alps?
How did the Rhine extend watershed southward?
What period did the Rhine capture streams?
Where are the streams the Rhine captured?
What period was 2.5 million years ago?
How many major ice ages have occurred?
How far did the sea level drop in the ice ages?
In early Pleistocene, what direction did the Rhine flow?
During glacial times, where was the mouth of the Rhine located?
When did the last glacial start?
When did the last glacial end?
Which direction did the Rhine flow during the last cold phase?
How much lower was the North Sea in the last cold phase than it is today?
Besides the North Sea and the Irish Channel, what else was lowered in the last cold phase?
What was the source of the Rhine in the last Ice Age?
What stretched across middle Europe in the last ice age?
When was the Last Glacial Maximum?
What covered Scandinavia, the Baltics, Scotland, and the Alps in the last Ice Age?
What is the term for wind-blown dust in a tundra?
When did Europe slowly begin to warm up from the last Ice Age?
What did frozen subsoil and expanded alpine glaciers begin to do?
Where did the discharge from glaciers go in Europe in the last Ice Age?
When did rapid warming begin and help vegetation?
When was Europe fully forested and recovered from the last Ice Age?
When did tides and currents similar to our current system begin?
Why did natural sedimentation by the Rhine compensate the transgression bby the sea?
How long has the Rhine coastline been in the same location?
Why is the current sea level rising?
How quickly is the sea level rising?
When was the Holocene?
When did the formation of the Holocene Rhine-Meuse delta begin?
Where did the Rhine occupy during the Holocene?
What country did the Rhine continue to rise during the holocene?
When have humans started impacting the delta?
What has increased sediment and delta growth also produced in the Rhine?
What increased in the Rhine because of the land clearance in the upland areas?
When did embankment of the major Rhine distributaries take palce?
How many avulsions have occurred in the past 6000 yeas?
Where do the branches Waal and Nederrijn-Lek discharge to?
What do the Waal and the Nederrijn-Lek discharge throguh?
Where does the Ijssel branch flow?
What did the Zuider Zee brackish lagoon change into?
How many branches does the Rhine branch into?
When was the Rhine first discovered?
The Rhine first formed a boundary between Gaul and what else?
Since when was the Rhine part of the areal of Hallstatt culture?
Who first wrote about the Rhine's discovery and border?
When did Augustus die?
The Rhine and what other river were accepted as the Germanic frontier?
When did the Rhine stop being the Roman boundary?
Which direction did Romans use to drift through the Rhine?
Where are the upper Rhine and upper Danube crossed?
How many legions in five bases were along the Rhine by the Romans?
Vetra and I Germanica and XX Valeria were the two legions for what?
What was the Colonia Agrippina's original name?
What did the number of legions in Roman times depend on?
What does Colonia Agrippina's original name translate into?
When did Germanic tribes cross the Rhine to migrate?
What did Germanic tribes establish with help from the Rhine?
What is the translation of Siebengebirge?
Who is the hero who killed a dragon on the Drachenfels?
Who threw gold into the Rhine, according to legend?
When did the Rhine become borders with Francia?
When was the Rhine fully within the Holy Roman Empire?
The Rhine flowed through Swabia, Franconia and what other location in the 10th Century?
Who sold the Upper Rhine to Burgundy?
When was the Upper Rhine sold to Burgundy?
What was the name of the time the Upper Rhine form a border between France and Germany?
What was a long term goal of French foreign policy along the Rhine?
Who established the Confederation of the Rhine?
When was the confederation of the Rhine?
When was the Rhine crisis?
When was Rhineland subject to the Treaty of Versailles?
When would the occupation of allies leave Rhineland?
After 1935, who would be forbidden to enter Rhineland?
What do some believe the Treaty of Versailles assisted in?
When did the German army reoccupy Rhineland?
Where is the Rhine Bridge?
What was the Rhine considered to invaders in WWII?
When was Operation Market Garden?
What bridge did the Germans fail to demolish?
What was the Warsaw Pact war plan?
What was the accepted length of the Rhine prior to 1932?
Who stated a change of the length of the Rhine?
Why was the Rhine measurement changed?
in 1932 what was the Rhine measurement changed to?
When was the Rhine measurement corrected back to the original?
When was the current parliament of Scotland convened?
What act set out the Parliament's powers as a devolved legislature?
The legislative competence of the Parliament species what areas?
To what body are certain powers explicitly specified as being reserved for?
The Scottish Parliament may legislate as it pleases as long as the powers aren't already reserved by where?
What remained an important issue in Scottish national identity for many years?
How many hundred of years was Scotland directly governed by the parliament of Great Britain?
Why were the initial suggestions for a devolved parliament before 1914 shelved?
When was there a sharp rise in nationalism in Scotland?
What did Kllbrandon's report in 1973 recommend establishing?
Which sea was oil discovered in?
What campaigh did the Scottish National Party (SNP) run?
When did Prime Minister Wilson commit to some form of devolved legislature?
What did the SNP publicly opine about the oil revenues?
When was the final legislative proposals for a Scottish Assembly passed?
Where was an elected assembly to be set up, under the terms of the Scotland Act of 1978?
How many of the Scottish electorate would need to for it on the referendum?
What percentage of the vote for a Scottish Assembly in favor of it?
How did trying to establish a devolved Scottish Assembly go in 1979?
What percentage of Scotland's voting population failed to actually vote?
In the range between 1980 and 1990, what did demand for grow?
Whose control of the UK's government helped fuel a desire for a Scottish Parliament?
When was the Scottish Constitutional Convention held?
What provided much of the basis for the structure of the Parliament in 1995?
Where has the official home of the Scottish Parliament been since 2004?
Who designed the Scottish Parliament building?
What nationality is the architect Enric Miralles?
What shape are some of the buildings in the Parliament complex?
Who opened the new Parliament building on October 9, 2004?
What was the building vacated twice to allow for?
Where was Parliament's temporary home whilst the permanent building was being built?
Where were interviews held while the parliament was in its temporary building?
In May 2002, where would you go to address the Parliament?
Where was Parliament temporarily relocated to in May of 2000?
Who did the Parliament rent additional buildings from?
What former administrative building was used for the MSP's offices?
What happened to the building on George IV Bridge when the Parliament was done with it?
What do the former Midlothian County Buildings face?
Which hall was used as Parliament's principle committee room?
Who is elected to serve as the Presiding Officer at the beginning of each parliamentary session?
Who is currently speaker of the Scottish Parliament?
What type of ballot is used to elect the Presiding Officer and deputies of the Parliament?
How many MSPs are there?
Who is responsible for operating the electronic voting equipment and chamber clocks?
Who is responsible for ensuring the Parliament works smoothly?
Who sets the work agenda and allocates time in the chamber?
How many seats must a political party have to be represented on the Parliamentary Bureau?
Who represents the Scottish Parliament at home and abroad in an official capacity?
What is the seating arrangement of the debating chamber?
Why is the seating of the debating chamber arranged as it is?
How many seats are in the debating chamber?
How many members in the seats of the Scottish Parliament are members of the Scottish Government?
What can the non-elected members from the Scottish Government not do?
Where does the gold in the parliamentary mace come from?
What is the parliamentary mace made of?
Who presented the mac to the Scottish Parliament when it was initially opened?
What words are inscribed on the mace of parliament?
What is the mace displayed in?
Which month is the first in the year Parliament takes a two week vacation?
Where do plenary meetings take place?
Who are debates and meetings open to?
How much does it cost to gain entry to a parliament meeting?
What contains a nearly verbatim of parliamentary debates?
What day of the week does the Time for Reflection take place?
How long might a speaker address the members during the Time of Reflection?
Who decides who gets to address the members of Parliament to share their thoughts on issues of faith?
Because speakers are drawn from across Scotland, what do the represent the balance of?
What can faith groups ask the Presiding Officer to do for them?
Who decides who gets to speak in the chamber debates?
What is also decided by the Presiding Officer?
What does the Presiding Officer try to achieve a balance of between speakers?
What members typically open debates?
What language other than English has the Scottish Parliament had meetings in?
What time do the MSPs normally decide on the motions and amendments from that day?
What is heralded by the sounding of the division bell?
What do MSPs who are not in the chamber when the division bell rings return to do?
How do members vote when there is a division?
How long does it take to know the outcome of a division?
What can often be predicted beforehand?
Who normally instructs members how to vote?
Who has the task of ensuring party members vote according to the party line?
What type of issues are members typically allowed to vote as they please?
What happens if a member doesn't vote the party line?
When is the Members Debate held?
Why are debates on proposed motions by an MSP conducted?
How long does the Members Debate last?
Who contributes to Members Business in addition to the proposer?
What does the minister who was the catalyst of the Members Business do by speaking after everyone else?
Where is much of the work of the Scottish Parliament done?
What are committees in the Scottish Parliament compared to other systems?
What is one avenue being compensated for by having committees serve such a large role?
Taking evidence from witnesses is one of committees' what?
Where might committees meet outside of Parliament?
Who are committees comprised of?
What do the membership of the committees reflect?
Different committees have what set out in different ways?
What type of committee is set down under the SP's standing orders?
What session is the Scottish Parliament in?
When are subject committees established?
How many ministries of the Scottish government does a committee typically correspond to?
Economy, Energy and Tourism is one of the what?
What is the Scottish Parliament currently in the fourth of?
What is set up to scrutinize private bills submitted by party outsiders?
What topic do private bills typically have?
Who decides how land or property is allowed to be used?
What kind of committee considered legislation on the development of the Edinburgh Tram Network?
What act sets forth the functions of the Scottish Parliament?
Who gave her royal assent to the Scotland Act of 1998?
What does the Scotland Act of 2012 extend?
What body constitutes the supreme legislature of Scotland?
Who has the role of holding the Scottish Government to account?
Where are reserved matters stated in the Scotland Act?
If a matter is not specifically reserved, who is it devolved to?
Why do police and fire services fall under the purview of the Scottish Parliament?
How much can the SP alter income tax in Scotland?
Setting speed limits was one of the further devolutions which was conferred by what act?
What is the name of matters outside the legislative ability of the Scottish Parliament?
Issues dealt with at Westminster are not ones who is able to deal with?
Where are issues like abortion and drug policy legislated on?
Most aspects of transport safety is a subject dealt with by whom?
What may be presented to Parliament in various ways?
Who may introduce new laws or amendments to laws already on the books as a bill?
An MSP may introduce a bill as what?
Who may also submit private bills to Parliament?
How do bills pass through Parliament?
What is stage 1 in the life of a bill?
What are presented to parliament in addition to the bill itself?
What do statements from the PO and member in charge of the bill also indicate?
Where are bills typically gestated in Stage 1?
If Parliament agrees in a vote to the general principle of a bill, what does it then proceed to?
What is the final stage of a bill in the Scottish Parliament?
How many parts does the consideration of a bill in Stage 3 have?
What vote on a bill takes place in Stage 3?
What type of amendments might members opposed to a bill put on the table?
When do members proceed to vote on whether they agree to the principles of the final bill?
Who does the Presiding Officer submit the final bill to?
Why is the final bill passed to the Monarch?
What is the minimum amount of time before a bill can go into law?
Who is a bill referred to for a ruling on whether it's within the powers of the Parliament?
What does the template for bills passed by the Scottish Parliament include?
What party forms the Scottish Parliament?
Who is eligible to toss their name in the hat to be First Minister?
Who is elected at the beginning of each term?
Other than Scotland's Chief Law Officer, from whence are most ministers drawn from amongst?
Who makes formal appointment or dismissal decisions?
What day of the week are general elections held?
What month, every four years, are the ordinary general elections held on?
Who may change the date by up to a month, on the proposal of the PO?
If an extraordinary election is held within less than six months before the date of an ordinary election, what does it do to the ordinary election?
How many days does the Parliament have to nominate a First Minister after a General Election?
What enables the Scottish Parliament to scrutinize the government?
Who can question statements the First Minister or members of the cabinet make?
What does the First Minister deliver at the beginning of each parliamentary year?
What do the leaders of the opposition parties and other MSPs question the First Minister about?
What is set aside for question periods in the debating chamber?
On what day does a General Question Time take place?
Who may members direct questions towards during General Question Time?
What may members question the First Minister about directly during First Minister's Question Time?
How many general questions are available to opposition leaders?
What is the number of Constituency MSPs?
When was there a reduction in the number of Scottish MPs?
How many members can voters choose to represent the constituency?
Why do the island archipelagos comprise a smaller number of electors?
What is the current number of electors currently in a Scottish Parliament constituency?
How are the total numbers of seats allocated to parties?
What method is used for tallying votes in the second vote of the ballot?
The party awarded a seat is the one with the highest what?
What set is a seat added to after being allocated?
How is the process of allocating seats repeated until all available seats have been determined?
What does being an MSP share with the House of Commons?
When was the British Nationality Act passed?
How old most a person be to apply to be an MSP?
Members of which organizations are disqualified from sitting in the SP as elected MSPs?
What act sets the term for judging the boundaries of sanity to which individuals wishing to sit on the SP must adhere?
When the election produced an SNP majority government, what was it the first occurrence of?
Who did the SNP obtain 16 seats from?
By how much did Labour lead Lain Gray retain East Lothian?
How many seats did the SNP take from the Liberal Democrats?
What did the result of the SNP majority allow a referendum be held on?
The loss of Edinburgh Pentlands really disappointed whom the most?
What was the seat of former party leader David McLetchie?
What net loss did the Conservatives suffer?
Who announced she would step down as leader of the Conservatives?
Who congratulated the SNP while vowing to campaign against their referendum?
What consequence of establishing the Scottish Parliament applies to Scottish MPs sitting in the UK House of Commons?
What are MPs unable to vote upon?
What phenomenon has led to criticism?
What party had a victory in the 2015 UK election?
MPs representing English constituencies can only veto laws affecting which country?
What is an Islamic revival movement?
What aspects of life does Islamism seek to integrate itself into?
What goal does Islamism have when it comes to society and government?
What have the two different Islamist movements been described as oscillating between?
One strategy of Islamization is to seize power by what methods?
What process do moderate and reformist Islamists work within the boundaries of?
Where does Hamas originate?
What is the goal of Islamist groups like Hezbollah and Hamas?
What do radical Islamist organizations reject entirely?
On what basis do the radical Islamist organizations conduct their attacks?
What exists between fundamentalist Islamism and reformist Islamism?
What did Olivier Roy state underwent a remarkable shift in the second half of the 20th century?
What did the Salafi movement put emphasis on?
What has Islamism been increasingly interdependent with following the Arab Spring?
Why do Islamists need democratic elections?
What type of role that Islamism seeks makes it a somewhat controversial concept?
What do supporters of Islamism believe their views reflect?
The idea that Islam can be apolitical isn't able to be embraced by whom?
What does the inability to separate Islam from Islamism lead many in the West to support?
What do progressive moderates of Islam seek to separate?
What term do Islamists think should be applied to them?
What does a writer for the International Crisis Group think the concept of political Islam is a creation of?
What was apolitical Islam?
When was the heyday of secular Arab nationalism?
What, rather than Islamism, requires explanation?
What did some of the Islamist groups supported by the West later become to be seen as?
When did Western governments support fledgling Islamists?
What did the non-Afghan veterans returning home have in addition to their prestige?
Who did the US provide aid to, to fight against the Soviet Union?
Western governments considered Islamists to be the lesser of two evils when compared to whom?
What did the non-Afghan veterans returning home have in addition to their prestige?
Who is the President of Egypt?
What relationship with Israel is Sadat for?
What was Sadat seeking by releasing Islamists from prison?
When did the so called gentlemen's agreement between Sadat and the Islamists break down?
How was Sadat rewarded by the Islamists for his attempts to bring Egypt into modern times and civilization?
What type of interpretation of Islam does Salafism promote?
What does Salafism in its harshest form encourage its followers to view the religion of others with?
Salafism posits that democracy is responsible for what type of horrible events of the 20th century?
Conservative Islam classifies Muslims who follow Shia interpretation as what?
What interpretation of Islam is, for many of the adherents, the "gold standard" of their religion?
What type of movement is the Muslim Brotherhood?
The Muslim Brotherhood's competence compares well against what type of local governments?
What type of assistance to out of town students is the Muslim Brotherhood known for?
What are incompetent government's commitment to social justice limited to?
Why has the Muslim Brotherhood facilitated inexpensive mass marriage ceremonies?
What was Iqbal studying in England and Germany?
What organization did Iqbal join in London?
Who was Iqbal a critic of?
What year did Iqbal return to Lahore?
What book was Iqbal's seven English lectures published as?
What did Iqbal fear would weaken the spiritual foundations of Islam and Muslim society?
Iqbal worried that India's mostly Hindu population would do what to Muslim heritage and culture?
When Iqbal promoted ideas of greater Islamic political unity, what did he encourage ending?
When was Iqbal elected president of the Muslim League?
What did Iqbal's Allahabad address inspire?
Who was an important figure in the twentieth-century Islamic revival in India?
Maududi was trained as a lawyer, but chose what professional for himself instead?
When did Maududi found the Jamaat-e-Islami party?
Where did Maududi exert the most impact?
Where did Maududi's books place Islam?
Who was an important early figure in the Islamic revival in India?
Though trained as a lawyer, what profession did Maududi pursue instead?
Where did Maududi exert the most impact?
Where did Maududi's books place Islam?
What did Maududi believe Muslim society could not be Islamic in the absence of?
Maududi believed that Islam needed what to be established?
What is the English translation of tawhid?
What type of revolution did Maududi advocate?
By what method did Maududi want to change the hearts and minds of individuals?
When was the Muslim Brotherhood founded?
Where was the Muslim Brotherhood founded?
Who founded the Muslim Brotherhood?
The motto of the Muslim Brotherhood specifies what as being their constitution?
What influence did Al Banna wish to eliminate from the Muslim world?
Some elements of the Brotherhood directed what action against the government?
When was Al-Banna assassinated?
Who was Al-Banna's assassination a retaliation for the prior assassination of?
When was the Brotherhood first banned in Egypt?
What Egyptian president jailed thousands of members of the Brotherhood?
What status has the Brotherhood obtained in the Islamic world?
What percentage of seats did political parties identifying as Islamist win in the Egyptian parliamentary election of 2011-2012?
For many years, what was the Brotherhood described as?
The Brotherhood was the only opposition group in Egypt able to do what during elections?
Who was the first democratically elected president of Egypt?
What was the defeat of the Arab troops at the hand of the Israeli troops during the Six-Day War?
The defeat of the Arab troops in the Six-Day War constituted what for the Arab Muslim world?
Secular Arab nationalism was blamed for both the defeat of Arab troops as well as what type of stagnation?
What happened to the credibility of secular politics as a result of the Six-Day War?
What gained ground when Arab nationalism suffered?
Mohammad Iqbal was what type of father to the State of Pakistan?
Who was the ideologue of the Iranian Revolution?
Where does Khomeini's beliefs fall as compared to Mawdudi and Qutb?
Who was it essential to Islam to imitate?
What long term agenda was the acts of plundering Muslim lands by the West?
What Republic has maintained its control of Iran?
Iran has assisted what type of groups in Iraq?
What type of sanctions has the US directed at Iran?
When did the Iranian government enjoy something of a resurgence?
Who stated he wanted Israel to vanish?
Who deployed its army into Afghanistan in 1979?
What was the Soviet Union trying to suppress with its army?
What did the conflict galvanize Muslims around the world to do?
How effective was the military use of the "Afghan Arabs"?
How many Muslims came from around the world to fight in Afghanistan?
What did the Gulf War inadvertently do in the early 1990s?
Whose occupation of Kuwait did the US military personal seek to put an end to?
Up until 1990, Saudi Arabia played an important role in restraining what groups?
What monarchy did western troops protect?
Whose puppet did Islamists accuse the Saudi regime of being?
Who did the attacks resonate most with?
What did Saudi Arabia try to repress to compensate for its loss of stature?
Where did American troops remain stationed after Saddam's defeat?
Where did a bloody civil war break out?
Who masterminded many terror attacks?
Whose ideas became increasingly radical during his imprisonment?
When was Qutb executed?
What organization was led by Hasan al-Hudaybi?
What movements pursued a more radical direction?
When had the Brotherhood renounced violence as a means of achieving its goals?
Who took up the path of violence?
When did the Egyptian Islamic Jihad assassinate Anwar Sadat?
Which leaders did the Islamic extremists attack?
What sin were the leaders the extremists attacked guilty of?
Who wrote a pamphlet outlining the radical ideas of the extremists?
What did al-Gama'a al-Islamiyya use to get its way?
Over 100 Egyptian police were victims of what group's campaign of terror?
When did Jamaa Islamiya renounce violence?
How did the Islamic Group's campaign to overthrow the government turn out?
Who has the Islamic Liberation Party attempted to assassinate?
Until 1987, what stance did the Muslim Brotherhood in Palestine take towards Israel?
What organization is devoted to Jihad against Israel?
What did the Hamas charter uncompromisingly encourage?
The Brotherhood's members are against consuming what beverage?
Where does HAMAS want to establish an Islamic state?
What organization has continued to be a major disruptive force in Palestine?
How many people did Hamas kill between 2000 to 2007?
What did Hamas win in the January 2006 legislative election?
When did Hamas drive the PLO out of Gaza?
What have Muslims praised Hamas for doing?
What type of regime ruled over Sudan for many years?
Who was the leader of the Islamist regime in Sudan?
What organization did General Gaafar al-Nimeiry invite members of to serve in his government?
How did Turabi build a strong economic base?
Where did Turabi place students sympathetic to his views?
When was al-Nimeiry overthrown?
How did the party overthrow the elected government in 1989?
Though Turabi proclaimed his support for the democratic process, he strictly applied what after coming into power?
Who did the NIF regime harbor prior to 9/11?
What did the NIF try to unify Islamist opposition against?
One of FIS' agenda items was to force women to start doing what?
When was the FIS founded?
Where was the FIS formed?
What does the acronym FIS stand for?
What were the national elections in 1991 canceled by?
Unsurprisingly, the mujahideen's victory against the Soviets in the 1980s failed to produce what?
What type of civil war was fought between political and tribal warlords?
When did the Democratic Republic of Afghanistan collapse?
What did the civil war leave the state of Afghanistan's economy in?
How much of Afghanistan did the Taliban take over?
Thousands of madrasahs spawned what organization?
Where did support from governmental and religious groups come from?
The Taliban was so different from other moments that they could be more accurately described as being what?
What did the Taliban want to subject the entire country to?
Who influenced the Taliban's ideology?
When was the regime in Pakistan overthrown by General Zia-ul-Haq?
What had Bhutto planned on banning within six months, before he was overthrown?
What was Zia-ul-Haq's official state ideology?
What was Zia-ul-Haq accused of using Islamization to legitimize?
When was Zia-ul-Haq killed?
What type of group is The Islamic State?
Who leads The Islamic State?
How many people did the Islamic State control the territory of as of March 2015?
What does the Islamic State lack from the international community?
What did the Islamic State proclaim itself in 2014?
When did ISIL pledge allegiance to al-Qaeda?
When did Western forces invade Iraq?
Why did al-Qaeda tell ISIL to take a hike?
When did the Syrian Civil War begin?
What has the United Nations designed ISIL?
What's the party's take on Muslim history?
When did the four rightly guided Caliphs die?
When was the Ottoman Caliphate abolished?
The abolition of the Ottoman Caliphate is believed to have ended what system?
What are colonial powers blamed for?
What type of jihad does HT avoid engaging in?
How does HT strive to amass power?
Who specifically does HT target to change the opinion of?
Where did HT fail to pull off a bloodless coup in 1974?
What have many HT members graduated to joining?
How many Muslims are in Greater London?
What type of outlook do some of the Muslims in London have?
When did the Channel 4 documentary Undercover Mosque air?
The perceived British policy of being hands off of its Muslim population has resulted in what derogatory term for London?
What was Abu Hamaz al-Masri charged with when he was arrested?
How long as the U.S. government been actively engaged in efforts to counter Islamism?
What department in the U.S. spearheaded the efforts against Islamism?
Who called for an agency to be created to be solely focused at undermining the Islamism ideology?
What position in the government does Robert Gates hold?
What was the U.S. Information Agency charged with doing during the Cold War?
The word imperialism has it's origins in which ancient language?
By what means is imperialism usually administered?
The term imperialism has been applied to western countries, and which eastern county?
Imperialism is responsible for the rapid spread of what?
Imperialism extends a country's power and what?
colonial rule would be considered what type of imperialism?
imperialism often divides countries by using which technique?
Informal imperialism is still dominant; however, less what?
A forced trade agreement between two countries would be an example of what?
colonial rule, or physical occupation of a territory is an example of what kind of imperialism?
Some have generalized the meaning of the word imperialism down to general-purpose what?
What subtle tool can be used in an informal imperialistic situation to expand a controlled area?
Which is more costly, formal, or informal imperialism?
The amount of land a country controls is its greatest what?
Western Imperialism divided the globe according to which theory?
Who suggested that imperialism was the "highest" form of capitalism?
One country's authority over a number of others would constitute the original country as what?
Most imperialism was carried out using which method of transport?
Imperialism is confused with what other term?
What does colonialism lack that imperialism has?
Colonialism as a policy is caused by financial and what other reasons?
Who besides the Russians are often left out of the colonialism debat?
Imperialism and colonialism both assert a states dominance over what?
Political advantage is an attribute of which state policies?
Colonialism often means a country doing what?
How would one create an empire by means of Imperialism?
What is colonialism's core meaning?
what do conquering people pass down to native populations?
what is the most controversial aspect of imperialism?
Friedrich Ratzel thought what was needed for a state to survive?
J. A. Hobson wanted which races to develop the world?
Which theory justifies imperialism in part?
In Latin America what is the most revered skin color?
Where was Friedrich Ratzel born?
Where was Halford Mackinder born?
Halford Mackinder and Friedrich Ratzel where what kind of geographers?
Friedrich Ratzel thought imperialism was what for the country?
How would the geographical societies in Europe support certain travelers?
Which theory suggested people in the tropics were uncivilized?
According to Ellen Churchill Semple what type of climate was necessary for humans to become fully human?
Which book by Edward Said portrayed the east as being the "others?"
According to certain Geographical theories what type of human does a tropical climate produce?
By justification certain racial and geographical theories, Europe thought of itself as what?
What law justified British imperialism?
When did Great Britain colonize Australia?
Imperialism is most often associated with which sovereignty?
What were the native inhabitants of Australia called?
Terra Nullius is a Latin expression meaning what in English?
Orientalism refers to how the West developed a what of the East?
Early Western texts referencing the East describe the people as being what?
The West saw the East as what?
What was used by the West to justify control over eastern territories?
The West saw themselves as what compared to the east?
bassett focuses on what to illustrate his idea?
What provided an incentive to western empires to colonize Africa?
What were blank spaces used for on nineteenth-century maps?
What did Basset analyze before coming to his conclusions?
Who besides the british colonized Africa?
During which era did the Aztec and Incan empires thrive?
Who used imperialism during their rule of the Mongol Empire?
How many Muslim empires have used imperialism?
Which is older the British Empire or the Ethiopian Empire?
The Asante and Lunda Empires were in which region?
When imperialism impacts social norms of a state, what is it called?
What is Cultural Imperialism often referred to as?
Which American show changed the views of Romanians during the cold war?
Which historic empire used cultural imperialism to sway local elites?
How do regimes fight against cultural imperialism?
When did the age of Imperialism begin?
What were European countries doing during the 1700's?
How many years have imperialistic practices existed?
When did the age of imperialism end?
What was the name of the imperialistic policy in China?
When was John Gallagher born?
When did Ronald Robinson die?
What profession were Ronald Robinson and John Gallagher?
What grew on a global scale as a result of imperialism?
Who was made rich and prosperous prior to World War 1
European imperialism was focused on what?
When did the colonization of India occur?
What did European empires rely on to supply them with resources?
Who did Britain exploit in India?
What advancements besides military technology did Europe achieve?
What did European chemists make that could be used in warfare?
what was invented in 1880 that revolutionized warfare?
What weapons were the Zulus using during the Anglo-Zulu War of 1879?
Which region invented the machine gun?
Theories on imperialism use which country as a model?
When did the term imperialism first come to be used by its current definition?
What was the idealized value of imperialism?
According to Lenin why must capitalistic countries have an imperialistic policy?
some debate that there is a correlation between capitalism, imperialism, and what?
When was the military-political complex reflected upon within the scope of understanding imperialism?
When were Joseph Schumpeter and Norman Angell at their most prolific writing period?
Hobson argued that imperialism was an international what?
How did Hobson argue to rid the world of imperialism?
What served as a justification for imposing imperialistic policies on certain peoples or regions?
What was thought to decide a person's behavior?
Humans in tropical environments were considered what?
Europe first colonized the Americas, then Asia, but what continent was third?
What were the two forms of environmental determinism?
Who thought the world could be split into climatic zones?
Which regions have temperate climates?
What did the the Europeans think the peoples in the tropics were in need of?
What was a similar view about the Asian continent called?
Who did the geographic scholars work for?
When is the earliest Britain had an imperialist policy?
When was the British East India Company established?
Who chartered the British East India Company?
What happened to the East India Trading Company in 1767?
Which country had trading posts in India before Britain?
When did France take control of Algeria?
When did France begin in earnest to rebuild its global empire?
What religion did the French spread along with their imperialism?
Where did France focus its efforts to rebuild its empire?
When did French Republicans back building the French empire?
Jules Ferry thought that the "higher races" have a duty to what?
What did France offer that was rare by imperial standards?
How did france differ from Britain in managing its colonies?
The French thought bringing what would uplift other regions?
Where did the French send a large number of settlers?
Where did Charles de Gaulle and the Free French run operations during World War 2?
After 1945, what challenged the French empire?
Where did France lose a war in the 1950's?
Where did France win a war in the 1950's
By when did most of France's Colonies gain independence?
Where were the Germanic tribes originally located?
What was the only region in Europe not conquered by the Germanic tribes?
When did the Germanic tribes claim territory in north and west Europe?
By when did the Germanic tribes conquer the Celtic peoples?
Germany referred to which area more so than an actual country?
Germany doesn't have an imperialistic past until when?
When was Otto von Bismarck born?
When was the the second German empire founded?
Who caused the dissolution of the Holy Roman Empire?
What was Germany's central interest?
Besides Africa, where did Germany have imperial interests?
Colonies were a sign of what amongst European countries?
When did Germany found their first settlement?
What was the name of the first German settlement?
Who influenced Bismark besides his neighbors?
What happened as a result of the Russo-Japanese War?
When was the first Sino-Japanese War?
Which country did Japan force into an alliance?
Which area of China did Japan conquer in 1931?
Who along with Russia supported post WW-II communist movements?
When was the Russian Policy "Indigenization" defunded?
Who asserted Russia's right to "self-determination?"
After WW-II where did Russia apply its old Tsarist regimes?
Who had established the Russian empire to its former glory prior to 1921?
Trotsky thought what was needed for a true Russian revolution.
Who wrote that imperialism is the highest stage of capitalism?
Who argued that the USSR had itself become an imperialist power?
Who was the leader of Russia in the 1960's?
What policy did Stalin implement shortly after Lenin's Death?
What was the first British empire based on?
When did Great Britain lose its colonies in North America?
What policy gave Britain dominance in world trade?
When did the Spanish and Portuguese colonies gain their independance.
When was the defeat of Napoleonic France?
By the late 19th century, which country had the largest empire ever to exist in the world?
What kinds of sciences were Social Darwinism and theories of race?
Rudyard Kipling was an influential spokesman for what?
In which continent besides Asia were major gains made by the British Empire in the late 19th century?
How did the United States plan to subdue imperialistic tendencies?
What was the name of Theodore Roosevelt’s policy of imperialism?
What caused the US public to condemn the occupation of the philippines?
Which country besides the Cuba did the United states try to annex in 1898?
What did Smedley Butler call US foreign Policy?
Who was the director of the American Geographical Society in 1914?
When was Isiah Bowman appointed to President Wilson's Inquiry?
Who besides Woodrow Wilson himself had the idea for the inquiry?
What was the premise of Woodrow Wilson's inquiry?
What was Isiah Bowman nick name, as known by the public.
Some people describe what between individuals or groups as imperialism or colonialism?
the US expansion Westward could be viewed as what type of colonialism?
How many Africans were brought into the United States during the slave trade?
Who does Edward Said say is being attacked by US imperialism?
When did the Ottoman Empire fall?
Who reigned over the Ottoman empire when it was at its most powerful.
How many provinces did the Ottoman empire contain in the 17th century?
The Ottoman empire controlled territory on three continents, Africa, Asia and which other?
When was the Ottoman empire at its height?
What was the capital of the Ottoman empire?
Who did the Ottoman empire ally with in WW I?
What ended Turkish imperial Ambitions?
Which country today is a remnant of the Ottoman empire?
What does UMC stand for?
What is the United Methodist Church?
When was the UMC founded?
Who founded the UMC?
What is the church's theological orientation?
What is the largest denomination within the wider Methodist movement?
Approximately how many adherents does the United Methodist Church have across the world?
In the United States the UMC ranks as the largest what?
What percentage of the U.S. population self-identify with UMC?
When did the movement that would become The United Methodist Church begin?
Where did the movement that would become The United Methodist Church begin?
Why was the student group called "the Methodists?"
In what year did John and Charles Wesley come to America to teach the gospel?
In 1735, where did John and Charles Wesley teach the gospel in America?
In 1735, who did John and Charles Wesley teach the gospel to in America?
What did "The Holy Club's" teachings emphasize?
What caused the separation of the Methodists in the American colonies?
When did Wesley appoint Thomas Coke as bishop?
Who did Wesley appoint as bishop in 1784?
Where was the Baltimore Christmas Conference of 1784 held?
What is considered the Mother Church of American Methodism?
What church is located at the corner of 4th and New Streets in Philadelphia?
What is the oldest Methodist church in continuous use in the United States?
When was the congregation at St. George's founded?
Where did the congregation at St. George's initially meet in 1767?
When was the Methodist Episcopal Church founded?
Who became the first African Americans ordained by the Methodist Church?
Richard Allen and Absalom Jones were licensed by what church?
Richard Allen and Absalom Jones were licensed by St. George's Church in what year?
When did the Methodist Protestant Church split from the Methodist Episcopal Church?
Why did the Methodist Protestant Church split from the Methodist Episcopal Church?
When did the General Conference of the Methodist Episcopal Church split into two conferences?
Why did the General Conference of the Methodist Episcopal Church split into two conferences?
When was the United Methodist Church created?
Where did two leaders join hands and "give birth" to a new denomination?
Who was one man who joined hands and said "Lord of the Church, we are united in Thee...?"
The UMC understands itself to be part of what church?
What book recognizes the importance of the Chalcedonian Creed?
What is the concept of the visible and invisible Church?
Why was Wesley compelled to break with standard practice and ordain two of his lay preachers as presbyters?
Who assisted Wesley with ordaining Whatcoat and Vasey as presbyters?
Who were the two lay preachers that Wesley ordained as presbyters?
When was the UMC formed?
Who were two of the founders of the United Methodist Church?
In 1968, who led the team which systematized denominational doctrine?
Who is largely considered the first United Methodist theologian?
What is the grace that "goes before us?"
What is that power that enables us to love?
What is Prevenient grace?
Prevenient grace allowas those tainted by what to make a choice to accept or reject God's salvation in Christ?
What is the grace that we receive by faith and trust in God?
What cancels our guilt and empowers us to resist the power of sin and to fully love God and neighbor?
What is justifying grace also known as today?
What is another name for being born again?
What did John Wesley originally call the experience of conversion?
What is Sanctifying Grace?
What is that grace of God which sustains the believers in the journey towards Christian Perfection?
What is Christian Perfection?
What is a genuine love of God with heart, soul and mind?
What has been characterized as Arminian theology with an emphasis on the work of the Holy Spirit?
What is seeing the Holy Bible as the primary authority in the Church?
Today, which church is generally considered one of the more moderate and tolerant denominations?
What states that United Methodist theology is at once "catholic, evangelical and reformed?"
When did the General Conference go on record in support of the work of the Religious Coalition for Reproductive Choice?
Is the UMC pro-life or pro-choice?
The UMC was a founding member of what coalition?
What are two official bodies of the UMC governing coalition?
The church emphasizes the need to be in supportive ministry of what group?
The church holds that they are equally bound to respect the sacredness of the life and well-being of whom?
What is the taskforce that was organized to identify with the pro-life position?
In what year was there an attempt to withdraw the UMC membership?
Who is the president of TUMAS?
Historically, which movement has the Methodist Church supported?
When did the UMC's General Board of Church and Society call on all United Methodists to abstain from alcohol for Lent?
What was the name of Wesley's famous sermon in which he warned against the dangers of drinking?
What does the United Methodist Church use in the sacrament of the Holy Communion?
The UMC condemns what type of punishment?
The UMC believes that Jesus abolished the death penalty in what Bible verse?
The UMC believes that Jesus repudiated the les talionis in what BIble verses?
What part of the UMC calls for its bishops to uphold opposition to capital punishment?
The UMC prohibits the celebration of what type of unions?
In what year was the trial of Rev. Jimmy Creech?
In what year was same-sex marriage legalized nationwide?
What is the governing committee that voted in favor of a proposal that would permit ministers to officiate same-sex weddings?
Many organizations have recently called for broader acceptance of which community?
Many conferences have taking a position by voting in favor of what?
In what year was Rose Mary Denman defrocked for openly living with a same-sex partner?
In what year was Irene Elizabeth Stroud convicted in a church trial?
What group has approved the appointment of an openly partnered lesbian to the provisional diaconate?
What does the UMC oppose as incompatible with the teaching of Scripture?
The church states that, as Christians, they are aware that neither the way of what is righteous before God?"
The Church supports those persons who conscientiously oppose what?
The UMC maintains that war is incompatible with what?
The Church rejects was as an instrument of what?
What does the UMC endorse under strict and effective international control?
Which task force states that pornography is harmful?
The UMC teaches that pornography is about what?
According to the UMC, persons who are addicted to pornography have altered perceptions of whom?
The UMC supports federal funding for research on embryos created for what purpose?
The UMC supports research on what cells retrieved from umbilical cords?
The UMC stands in oppopsition to the creation of embroys for the sake of what?
What is the revised version of The Book of Common Prayer called?
When did John Wesley provide a revised version of The Book of Common Prayer?
The Sunday Service of the Methodists in North America was a revised version of what book?
In what country does some clergy in the UMC occasionally practice exorcism?
Many liturgies are derived from what book?
Healing services involve the laying on of hands and what else?
What may be named after a biblical figure?
Who is the founder of the Salvation Army?
Who is Methodism's revered founder?
What church is organized into conferences?
What is the only organization which may speak officially for the church?
What book is revised after every General Conference?
What is the highest level of the UMC?
How often does the General Conference meet?
The United States is divided into how many jurisdictions?
How many central conferences are outside of the United States?
What is the main purpose of the jurisdictions and central conferences?
Who are the chief administrators of the church?
What consist of one ore more Annual Conferences?
Who makes decisions in between the four-year meetings?
The Mission Council usually consists of whom?
In March 2007, the Mission Council of the South Central jurisdiction approved a 99-year lease on how many acres?
Why was the 36 acres leased?
Where is the George W. Bush Presidential library?
How many members make up the Judicial Council?
What is the highest court in the United Methodist denomination?
How long is the term of a Judicial Council member?
How many times a year does The Council meet?
Where does The Council meet?
What is the basic unit of organization within the UMC?
The term Annual Conference is often used to refer to what?
Clergy are members of what group rather than of any local congregation?
What is the guidebook for local churches and pastors?
What is the least number of members a board of trustees can have?
What is the greatest number of members a board of trustees can have?
What is an annual meeting of all the officers of the church and any interested members?
Which committee has the exclusive power to set pastors' salaries?
The UMC established and is affiliated with approximately how many colleges and universities in the U.S.?
How many schools and institutions does the church operate overseas?
Most schools established by the UMC are members of what group?
Who ordained the first Methodist clergy?
Clergy usually serve as what in local congregations?
Elders in full connection are each a member of what?
Each deacon in full connection is a member of what?
What is composed of the Area Provost/Dean ad the several District Superintendents of the Districts in the Annual Conference?
All clergy appointments are made for how long?
No appointment is official fixed until what occurs?
Who is called by God, affirmed by the church and ordained by a bishop?
Who appoints elders?
How many years do Elders serve as provisional Elders prior to their ordination?
Who may assign Elders?
Deacons serve a term of how many years as provisional deacons?
Who gives leadership, preaches the Word and conducts marriages, among other duties?
Who assist elders in the sacraments of Holy Communion and Baptism?
What are Deacons granted if they are appointed as pastor in a local church?
In what year was the ordination order of transitional deacon abolished?
What is the title for a seminary graduate who serves a two-three-year term in full-time appointment after being commissioned?
What provided for the creation of new orders known as "provisional elder?"
What is a local pastor's official title?
Who has the authority of a pastor only within the context and during the time of the appointment?
How many years must a local pastor attend a course of study at United Methodist approved seminary?
What type of membership will allow local pastors to retire as clergy?
What are members who have been baptized as an infant or child but who have not subsequently professed their own faith?
How to Baptized Members become Professing Members?
Name one way in which a person can become a Professing Member?
Unlike confirmation and profession of faith, what is a sacrament in the UMC?
How do students learn about the church?
What directions the local church to offer membership preparation to all people?
What do students learn about in confirmation and membership preparation classes?
Local church and certified are two types of what?
How can someone be recognized as local church lay servant?
How often must local lay servant reapply?
How many courses must a local lay servant take?
What is one tradition within the Christian Church?
What type of status did the UMC vote to seek in the National Association of Evangelicals?
Some in the UMC feel that false ecumenism might result in what?
In what year was the Commission on Pan Methodist Cooperation and Union formed?
When did the UMC enter into full communion with several churches?
Since what year has the UMC been exploring a possible merger with three historically African-American denominations?
At the time of its formation, how many members did the UMC have?
At the time of its formation, how many congregations did the UMC have?
In 2005, approximately how many members were in the UMC?
In 2005, approximately how many congregations were in the UMC?
Which state has the largest number of members?
By the opening of the 2008 General Conference, what was the total UMC membership?
By the opening of the 2008 General Conference, what was the total UMC membership in the U.S.?
By the opening of the 2008 General Conference, what was the total UMC membership overseas?
Which group seeks to reconceive and promote Biblical holiness in today's church?
What is an interdenominational group composed of various churches to promote the Gospel throughout the world?
When did delegates to the World Methodist Council vote to adopt the joint Declaration on the Doctrine of Justification?"
When was the French and Indian War?
Who fought in the French and Indian war?
How many people were in French North American Colonies?
How many people were in British North American Colonies?
Where was war fought?
How did war start?
When did violence start in war?
When did colonial governors meet with General Edward Braddock about attack on the french?
How successful was initial effort by Braddock?
Why did British operation fail in 1755, 56, 57?
In 1755 what fort did British capture?
What order did British make of French?
Who increased British military resources in colonies?
How much resources were French placing in North America?
Where was France concentraing efforts?
Where were British defeated in Canada?
What territory was ceded to Britain?
What land was ceded to Spain?
What was the significance of British win?
When was King George's war?
What is the confusion of the French and Indian war?
What was the Seven Years War?
What are other alternative names for French and Indian War?
What time framd does the Seven Years War cover?
How long did the fighting last in Seven Years War?
When was Montreal captured?
What was first battle in 1754?
What was French population in North America?
Where were French North Americans settled?
Where did French fur trappers travel?
What was the ratio of British settler to French?
Where did British settlers live?
Where were populations centered in colonies?
In between French and British, what groups controlled land?
What tribes were in Father Le Loutre's War?
Where did Iroquois Confederation control?
What rule did some native live under?
What are the Siouan-speaking tribes?
What areas did French recruit natives from?
What tribes supported British?
What was Frensh military presence at start of war?
How much British military was in North America at start of War?
What was normal British defense?
What was extent of Celeron's expedition?
Who was on Celeron's expedition?
How did Celeron handle business on trip?
How did Natives in Logstown take Celeron's information?
Where did Old Briton call home?
How did Celeron handle meeting with Old Briton?
What was Old Briton's response to Celeron?
How did Celeron feel about Native relations?
How were leaders back in Europe feeling about news from Celeron expedition?
How did William Shirley feel about French advancement?
When did British government give land for development of Ohio Country?
Who was given land by British goovernment for development of Ohio Country?
Who explored Ohio territory in 1750?
What agreement was made for trade with natives and British?
According to agreement between Iroquois and British, where was a strong house to be built?
What was the North American portion of War of Austrian Succession?
What was the end of the War of the Austrian Succession?
What issues were not addressed in the Treaty of Aix-la-Chapelle?
When a commission reached no decision, what happened?
What Governor in charge of New France died in 1752?
How many were in Langlades expedition?
Was was the plan for Langlades mission?
What was result of French attack of trading centre?
Who took command of French in spring of 1753?
Where did Marin build first fort?
Where was Marin's second fort constructed?
What was Marin's orders?
What native chief travelled to French fort and threatened Marin?
What was William Johnson's role in British military?
What was William Johnson's Iroquois name?
What title did Iroquois give Johnson?
Who was the speaker of the tribal council?
Governon Robert Dinwiddie had an investment in what significan company?
Who did Dinwiddie order to address French in Virginia territory?
Who was added to party as Washington went on the way?
When did Washington reach Fort Le Boeuf?
Who invited Washington to dine with him?
What letter did Washington present to Saint-Pierre?
How did Saint-Pierre respond to Washington?
Why did French feel they had right to Ohio claim?
How many men did Duquesne send to relieve Saint-Pierre?
When did British begin to build fort under William Trent?
What was the fort that was being built to be named?
Upon learning of a French scounting party in the area, what did Washington do?
What were casualties of battle?
Why was Tanaghrisson supporting British efforts?
What was the goal of Braddock's expedition?
When did French learn about Braddock's plans?
How did King Louis XV respond to British plans?
What were British plans against French?
What political response was convening in June/July 1754?
What was the goal of congress?
Was the plan formalized?
What was the importance of the congress?
Who went to Fort Dusquesne in June 1755?
How much success did this expedition with Braddock find?
How many casualties did British get?
What future Revolutionary key figures participated in this attack?
Whose activities were the French able to gain knowledge of?
What difficulties was Shirly having?
Where was Shirey going to be when Fort Oswego was to be attacked?
Who did Shirley leave at Oswego?
Who was New France's governor?
How did Vaudreuil react when Johnson was seen as larger threat?
Who won the battle of Lake George?
Where did Johnson stop?
Where was French withdrawal to?
Who captured Fort Beausejour?
How were British able to cut supplies to Louisbourg?
What other clashes were involved in taking Louisbourg?
After Braddock died, who controlled North American British forces?
In what meeting did Shirley lay out plans for 1756?
What proposed attacks did Shirley plan?
Where was Shirley planning an expedition?
Who was appointed as second in command to Lor Loudoun in 1756?
Who led New France reinforcements in 1756?
When did England formally declare war on France?
Where was there a weakness in British supply chain?
What was the attack on the British weakness?
How much gun powder was destroyed in attack?
What plans of the British did this attach on Oneida Carry set back?
Who refused to act until Loudoun approved plans?
Where did Montcalm move his heaquarter to show strategic advancement?
Where did Moncalm slip away to attack, left largely unprotected?
What disagreement did Montcalm and Indians have?
What was Loudoun's plans for 1757?
What was the purpose of Loudoun's troops at Fort Henry?
Who ordered Loudoun to attack Louisbourg?
Given the strength of French forces at Louisbourg, what did Loudoun do?
What troops attacked Fort William Henry in early 1757?
On what lake did troops attack fort willima henry in winter?
During withdrawal from Fort William Henry, what did some Indian allies of French do?
What was causing New France to have issues with resupplying?
What other reason caused poor supply of New France from a difficult winter?
Where was Montcalm focusing the defense for New France?
What led to Newcastle's fall from power as military advisor?
Who did Abercrombie replace as commander in chief?
Pitt's plan called for what attacks?
How many of the Pitt's planned expeditions were successful?
How many Frenchman won Battle of Carillon?
How many troops were defeated for British in BAttle of Carillon?
What success did Abercrombie gain out of the defeat at Carillon?
What impact did this loss have on Abercrombie?
In 1758 what was duc de Choiseul's plan for focused military efforts?
How successful was the French revised efforts?
What naval battles did France lose in 1759?
Who defeated Montcalm at Quebec?
What was the significance of victory at Forth Niagara for British?
What battle outside Quebec City did British lose in 1760?
What victory at thwarted efforts of French relief ships.
In Sept 1760 who negotiated a capitulation from Montreal?
What were requests made to British?
What British General negotiated at Montreal?
When did the North American French and Indian War end?
When was the European portion of the Seven Years War complete?
What choice did French have for surrendering land?
Why did France choose to give up continental lands?
How many French colonists were gained by British?
When was the deportation of Acadians?
Where did British resettle many Acadians?
Although some Acadians went to France and other destiantions, what North American city did many move to?
Who issued the Royal Proclamation of 1763?
What was the objective of Royal Proclamation of 1763?
What lands were reserved for natives?
Where did many Spanish Catholic move after British takeover in Florida?
What made Ohio Country vulnerable?
When was Spanish takeover of Louisiana Territory complete?
What natives were displaced by British takeover in Florida?
What did the loss mean to France?
What concept did philosophers in antiquity use to study simple machines?
What was the belief that maintaining motion required force?
Who had mathmatical insite?
How long did it take to improve on Sir Isaac Newton's laws of motion?
Who develped the theory of relativity?
What has partical physics made to describe sub-atomic forces?
What are the exchanged particles predicted by the standard Model?
What is the strongest main interaction?
What is the weakest main interaction?
What are weak and electromatic forces expressions of?
Who provided a philosophical discussion of force?
What was the concept of force an integral part of?
How many elements did Aristotle believe the terrestrial sphere to be made up of?
Where did Aristotle believe the natural place for earth and water elements?
What did Aristotle refer to forced motion as?
When were the shortcomings of Aristotle's physics overcome?
Whose work corrected Aristotle's physics in the seventeenth century?
What did objects in forced motion contain according to the late Medieval idea that influence Aristotle?
Who experimented by rolling stones and canonballs down a steep incline?
What force acted on bodies to retard their velocity?
Whose First Law of Motion says that unless acted upon be forces, objects would continue to move at a constant velocity?
What insight of Galileo was associated with constant velocity?
Who proposed that innate intertial is the natural state of objects?
What law connects relative velocities with inertia?
What are the laws of physics of Galileo, in reference to objest in motion and rest?
What doesn't change from being at rest to movement at a constant velocity?
What path does a ball thrown up and down in a moving vehicle take when seen by an outside observer?
What sate are things inside of a moving vehicle as seen by a person inside the vehicle?
What applies to equally to constant velocity motion as it does to rest.
What concept explains why objects continue in constant motion?
What makes day length constant on Earth?
Who explained that inertial reference frames equaled reference frames subject to constant acceleration?
What do astronaughts experience while in free-fall?
What was the basis mentioned for the develpment of the general theory of relativity?
What describes the proportionality of acceleration to force and mass?
What kind of measurements define accelerlations?
What has an equivalence between mass and space-time?
What is missing a theory on quantum gravity?
In Newton's second law, what are the units of mass and force in relation to microscales?
When forces are from the presence of differnet objects, what law gives symmetry?
What law staes that forces are interactions between bodies?
What kind of force does not exist under Newton's third law?
What is the equality of forces between two objects exerting force on each other??
What experiences acceleration when external force is applied to a system?
In what kind of system of particles are there no unbalanced iinternal forces?
What is the magnitude of force divided by when external force is added?
What does pushing and pulling perceptions provide for describing forces?
What is used to quantify the intuitive undestanding of forces?
What offers a conceptual definition of force?
How are laboratory measurements of forces determined?
How are forces classified with regard to push and pull strengt?
What physical quantities do not have direction?
How do you avoid problems when determining forces involved on an object from two or more sources?
If you do not know both magnitude and direction of two forces on an object, what would you call that situation?
How do you determine the acceleration of a rope when two people are pulling it?
In what conditions were forces first measured historically?
What do forces have with regard to additive quantities?
What is the resultant force called when two forces act on a particle?
When forces are acting on an extended body, what do you need to account for motion effects?
What geometric shape is used in equations to determine net force?
Whwn forces are at right ngles to each other what can they be broken down to?
If a force is pointing horizontally to the northeast, how many forces can you split the force into?
What do you get when you figure the sum of forces with vector addition?
What are the independant components of a vector sum that has been determined by scalar addition of individual vectors?
What can orthogonal forces be when there are three components with two at right angles to each other?
What can keep an object from moving when it is being pushed on a surface?
What is generated between a surface and an object that is being pushed?
Static friction balances what force when there is no movement of an object on a surface?
What makes static friction go up or down in responce to contact characteristics between an object and the surface it is on?
What can scales and spring balances measure between two forces by using static equilibrium?
What force acts on an object suspended on a spring scale in addition to gravity?
What equals the spring reaction force on an object suspended on a spring reaction scale?
Objects of constant density are proportional to volume by what force to define standard weights?.
Who expounded the Three Laws of Motion?
Who first described dynamic equilibrium?
What does motion at a constant velocity equal?
Who had the idea of a natural state for objects at rest?
Where will a canonball dropped from the crow's nest of a ship land according to Aristotle?
Where does a canonball dropped from the crow's nest of a ship actually land?
What occurs when traveling across a surface at a constant velocity with regard to friction?
What directly opposes the force applied to move an object across a surface?
What has to accounted for that causes no net force being the cause of constant velocity motion?
Who thought that applied force caused movement of an object regardless of non-zero velocity?
What equation currently decribes the physics of force.
What equation desribed the physics of force before the current Schrodinger equation?
How are the forces derived from fields treated similarly to?
What type of measurements result under Schrodinger equations when using operators instead of Newtonian variables?
What notion keeps it's meaning through both Netonian and Schrodinger physics equations?
What is the intrisic angular variable called when particles act upon one another?
What is the principle about relating spin and space variables?
What value does the seperating into fermions and bosons depend?
If the apparant force of two fermions is attractive, what is the spin function?
If the apparant force of two fermions is repulsive, what is the spin function?
How are the particle forces and accelerations explained as by gauge bosons exchange?
What is the redundant concept coming from momentum conservation?
What is more fundamental than force in quanton field theory?
What diagrams are used to simplify particle interactions on a fundamental level?
Matter particles are shown as what kind of lines in a Feynman diagram?
How many interactions are all of the universal forces based on?
What nuclear forces only act at short distances?
What force acts between electric charges?
What do gravitational forces act between?
What prohibits atoms from passing through each other?
Who formed the universal theory of gravitation?
In what century was quantum mechanics made?
What kind of self-consistent models are physicists trying to make that would create a theory of everything?
What type of physics model did Einstein fail to make?
Who identified gravity as a force?
Who came up with the concept that falling objects fell at the same speed regardless of weight?
How fast do objects fall on Earth?
Where was the measurment for the standard gravity on Earth taken?
What is an object's mass proportional to at the surface of the Earth?
How might gravity effects be observed differently according to Newton?
What could be attributed to gravity acceleration around the Earth?
What is gravitational acceleration proportional to?
What is included along with gravitational acceration, and mass of the Earth in a formula about rotation about the Earth?
What is used to figure the relative strengh of gravity?
Who made the first to measure value of the Newton Universal Gravitation Constant?
When was the first measurement of the value of the Newton Universal Gravitation Constant?
Who figured out that his law of gravity had to be universal?
What planet seemed to buck Newton's gravitational laws?
What planet did astrophysisist predict to explain the problems with Mercury?
What theory accounted for the Mercury problem?
Who came up with the theory of relativity?
Who first showed that Newton's Theory of Gravity was not as correct as another theory?
What theory best explains gravity?
What space-time path is seen as a curved line in space?
What is the derivative of an object's changing momentum called?
In what sense must you be observing the curvature of space-time?
What is the time rate of change of electric charge?
What magnetic and electric force acts on a charge?
What is the law named that defines a charge moving through a magnetic field?
Whatare the electrostatic and magnetic force awritten as the sum of?
Who first fully explained the origins of magnetic and electric fields?
When did the origins of magnetic and electric fields occur?
How many scalar equations were formed into a set by James Maxwell?
How many vector equations did Heaviside and Gibbs reformilate Maxwell's 20 scalar equtions into?
Who discovered that magnetic and electric could self-generate?
What was dificult to reconcile the photoelectric effect and the missing ultraviolet catastrophe?
What was used to create a new electromagnetic theory to reconcile the troubles with electromagnetic theory as it used to stand?
What did electromagnetic theory finally lead to?
What are the wave-particles called that mediate all electromagnetic phenomena?
What is QED short for?
What is often misunderstood as the cause of matter rigidity?
What actually causes rigidity in matter?
What is needed to pack electrons densely together?
How is the Pauli exclusion priciple manifested in the macro world?
What is often misunderstood as the cause of matter rigidity?
What actually causes rigidity in matter?
What is needed to pack electrons densely together?
How is the Pauli exclusion priciple manifested in the macro world?
What does stong force act upon?
What can be seen between hadrons?
What is the force between nucleons?
How are nuclear forces transmitted?
What is the term for the lack of obsevable free quarks?
What does the W and Z boson exchange create?
What is the observable effect of W and Z boson exchange?
What is the effect of beta decay?
How many times less is the strenght of the weak field compared to the strong?
At what temperature do weak and electromagnetic forces appear the same?
What is the repulsive force of close range atom interaction?
What occurs when electron clouds overlap from different atoms?
What causes Pauli repulsion?
What is the force that causes rigid strength in structures?
What can be used to model tension forces?
What do you use to let idea strings switch direction?
In what way do idea strings transmit tesion forces?
What is the final effect of adding more and more idea strings to a load?
What can increase the tension force on a load?
What did Newton's mechanics affect?
What didn't Newton's mechanics affext?
In what kind of fluid are pressure differences caused by direction of forces over gradients?
What may a force on one part of an object affect?
What does matter actually have that Newtonian mechanics doesn't address?
What causes strain in structures?
What is used to calculate cross section area in the volume of an object?
What are associated with normal forces?
What includes pressure terms when calculating area in volume?
What is the force equivalent of torque compared to angular momentum?
What would change the rotational inertia of a body under Newton's First Law of Motion?
To calculate instant angular acceleration of a rigid body what would you use?
Where does centripetal force go?
How do centripetal forces act in relation to vectors of velocity?
What force changes an objects direction of travel?
What is another word for centripetal force?
What is resposible for speeding up or slowing down an object?
What is the only form potential energy can change into?
What is the only form kinetic energy can change into?
What is preserved in a closed system of forces when acted upon?
What is the force between two locations related to?
What is the force called rgarding a potential field between two locations?
What is sometimes impossible to model?
Why are some forces due to that are impossible to model?
What do electrostatic gradiient potentials create?
Tension, compression, and drag are what kind of forces?
In what treatment are nonconservative and conservative forces described?
What changes macroscopic closed system energies?
What is the exchange of heat associated with?
What is the law of thermodynamics associated with closed system heat exchange?
What makes energy changes in a closed system?
What is the metric term less used than the Newton?
What is the kilogram-force sometimes reffered to as?
What is a very seldom used unit of mass in the metric system?
What seldom used term of a unit of force equal to 1000 pound s of force?
What is the seldom used force unit equal to one thousand newtons?